| 1998 Annual Report

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive
and 41" Street
Redevelopment Project Area

Pursuant to Mayor’s
Executive Order 97-2

! JUNE 30, 1999
Wiha MDa Mayor
Depa Paine

June 30, 1999

‘The Honorable Mayor Richard M. Daley, Members
of the City Council, and Citizens ofthe City of Chicago
City of Chicago

IRIN, LaSalle Street

Chicago, linois 60602

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The attached information for the Marin Luther King, Je. Drive and 41"
Street Redevelopment Project Area, along with 63 other individual reports,
is presented pursuant to the Mayoral Executive Order 97-2 (Executive
Order) regarding annual reporting on the City’s tax inerement financing
(TIF) districts. The City's TIF program has been used to finance
neighborhood and downtown improvements, leverage private investment,
and create and retain jobs throughout Chicago.

Pursuant to the Executive Order, the Annual Report, presented in the form
of the atached, willbe filed with the City Clerk for transmital to the City
‘Council and be distributed in accordance with the Executive Order.

Sincerely,

Christopher R. Hill
Commissioner
Department of Planning and Development

lhe CON

Walter K. Knorr
Chief Financial Officer

a ans a

BI ERNST& YOUNG LLP see Pho 312804

June 30, 1999

Mr, Christopher R, Hill
‘Commissioner

Department of Planning and Development
121 N. LaSalle St

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Commissioner Hill:

Enclosed is the required annual report for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street
Redevelopment Project Area, which we compiled at the direction of the Department of Planning
‘and Development pursuant to the Mayor's Executive Order 97-2. The contents are based on
information provided to us by the Chicago Departments of Planning and Development, Finance,
‘and Law Department. We have not audited, verified, or applied agreed upon procedures to the
data contained in this report. Therefore, we express no opinion on its accuracy or completeness.

‘The report includes the City's data methodology and interpretation of Executive Order 97-2 in
‘addition to required information, The tables in this report use the same lettering system as the
Executive Order in order to allow the reader to locate needed information quickly.

It has been a pleasure to work with representatives from the Department of Planning and
Development and other City departments

Very truly yours,
+ LP

Emst & Young LLP
~~ = ue

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNUAL REPORT - MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE AND 41" STREET REDEVELOPMENT

PROJECT AREA IN COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION (4) OF THE MAYOR'S EXECUTIVE ORDER
972

PURPOSE OF REPORT.
METHODOLOGY

(4) GENERAL DESCRIPTION.

() DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

(©) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

(® DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS,

(©) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROFECTS)

(©) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS.

() DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS

() SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

(DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS.

(FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER

() DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS.

(CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS.

() COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT.

(@) ATTACHMENT - REDEVELOPMENT PLAN... - -

PAGE
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

Purpose of Report:

The purpose of the Annual Report for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 415t Street
Redevelopment Project Area (Report) isto provide information regarding the City of Chicago (City)
tax increment financing (TIF) districts in existence on December 31, 1998, as required by the
Mayor's Executive Order 97-2 (Executive Order). This Report covers the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive and 415¢ Street Redevelopment Project Area (Project Area).

Methodology:

In the process of providing information about the Project Area, care was taken to follow the
‘organization ofthe Executive Order to allow the reaer to locate needed information in an efficent
manner. The Report reflects only TIF economic activity during 1998, also referred to in tis eport
a5 “the prior calendar year.” As outlined below, several assumptions were made concerning certain
required information.

‘The general boundaries of the Project Area are described and illustrated in a map. However, in order
to provide ease of reading, only major boundary streets are identified. For exact boundaries, the
interested reader should consult the legal description of the Project Area boundaries found in the
Redevelopment Plan (Attachment)

(b) Date of Designation and Termination
For purposes ofthis Report, the date of termination is assumed to occur 23 years from the date of
designation, the maximum duration currently allowed under the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act.

(©) Copy of Redevelopment Plan

‘The Redevelopment Plan, as amended (if applicable), for the Project Area is provided as the
‘Attachment at the end of the Repor.
a = oe

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(4) Description of Intergovernmental and Redevelopment Agreements

Table D describes agreements related to the Project Area which are either imergovernmental
agreements between the City and another public entity or redevelopment agreements between the
City and private sector entities interested in redeveloping all ora portion of the Project Area. The
date of recording of agreements executed by the City in 1998 and filed with the Cook County
Recorder of Deeds is included in Table D (if applicable).

(€) Description of TIF Projects

‘Table E describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has already received approval by the
Community Development Commission, and which received TIF financing during 1998. Those
projects in discussion, pre-proposal stage with a developer, or being reviewed by Community
Development Commission staff are not “projects” for purposes ofthe Report. The amount budgeted
for project costs and the estimated timetable were obtained from the Project Area's
intergovemmental or redevelopment agreements, if such agreements exist, Table E specifically
notes:

1) the nature ofthe project;
2) the budgeted project cost and the amount of TIF assistance allocated tothe project;

3) the estimated timetable and a statement of any change in the estimate during the prior
calendar year;

4) total City tax increment project expenditures during the prior calendar year and total City
‘tax increment project expenditures to date;

5) 2 description ofall TIF financing, including type, date, terms, amount, project recipient,
and purpose of project financing,
=e

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41* Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(6) Description ofall THF Debt Instruments
“Table F describes all THF debt instruments related to the Project Area in 1998. It should be noted
that debt instruments issued without a security pledge of ineremental taxes or direct payments from
incremental taxes for principal and interest are not included in Table F, as such instruments do not
‘qualify as TIF debt instruments as defined by the Executive Order. Table F includes:

1) the principal dollar amount of TIF debt instruments;

2) the date, dollar amount, interest rate, and security of each sale of TIF debt instruments
and type of instrument sold;

3) the underwriters and trustees ofeach sale;
4) the amount of interest paid from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998),
5) the amount of principal psd from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998),

(g) Description of City Contracts

Table G provides a description of City contracts related to the Project Area, executed or in effect
<uring 1998 and paid with incremental tax revenues. In addition, the date, names of all contracting
parties, purpose, amount of compensation, and percentage of compensation paid is included in the
table, Table G does not apply to any contract or contract expenditure reported under (eXS) of
‘Section 4 of the Executive Order.

City contracts related to the Project Area are defined as those contracts paid from TIF funds, not
related to a specific TIF project, and not elsewhere reported. tems include, but are not limited to,
payments for work done to acquire, dispose of, or lease property within a Project Area, or payments
to appraisers, surveyors, consultants, marketing agents, and other professionals. ‘These services may
affect more than one project in a Project Area and are not otherwise reported. Table G does not
report such noncontractual cost items as Recorder of Deeds filing fees, postage, telephone service,
tc. City contracts include term agreements which are city-wide, mult-

‘goods or services for various City departments.

— 2 &

ox

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41* Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(h) Summary of Private and Public Investment Activity

Table H describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has been executed through an
inergovermental or redevelopment agreement in 1998, or that has been approved by the
‘Community Development Commission in 1998

‘To the extent this information is available to the Commissioner of Planning and Development on
completed project basis, the table provides a summary of private investment activity, job creation,
and job retention within the Project Area and a summary for each TIF project within the Project
Area,

Table H contains the final ratio of private/public investment for each TIF project. The private
investment activity reported includes data from the intergovernmental or redevelopment
‘agreement(s) and any additional data available to the Commissioner of Planning and Development
thr private investment activity is estimated based on the best information available to the
‘Commissioner of Planning and Development.

Description of Property Transactions

Information eparding property wansactons is provided in Table Ito the extent the City tok or
divested tite to real property of was a lessor or lessee of real property within the Project Area.
Specifically, the Executive Onder requires descriptions of the following propery transactions
occurring within the Project Ares during 1998

1) every property acquisition by the City through expenditure of TIF funds, including the
location, type and size of property, name of the transferor, date of transaction, the
‘compensation paid, and a statement whether the property was acquired by purchase or by
‘eminent domain;

2) every property transfer by the City as part of the redevelopment plan for the Project
‘Area, including the location, type and size of property, name of the transferee, date of
‘transaction, and the compensation paid;

3) every lease of real property to the City ifthe rental payments are to be made from TIF
funds. Information shall include the location, type and size of property, name of lessor,
date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the rental amount;
<3

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

4) every lease of real property by the City to any other person as part of the redevelopment
plan for the Project Area. Information shall include the location, type and size of
property, name of lessor, date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the
rental amount.

) Financial Summary Prepared by the City Comptroller
‘Section @) provides 2 1998 financial summary for the Project Area audited by an independent
certified public accounting firm. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These statements include:

1) the balance in the fund forthe Project Area atthe beginning of the prior calendar year;

2) cash receipts by source and transfers deposited into the fund during the prior calendar
year:

43) transfer credits into the fund forthe Project Area during the prior calendar year:

4) expenditures and transfers from the fund, by statutory category, for the Project Area
during the prior calendar year;

'5) the balance in the fund forthe Project Area atthe conclusion ofthe prior calendar year.

(&) Description of Tax Receipts and Assessment Increments

Table K provides the required statement of tax receipts and assessment increments for the Project
‘Area as outlined in the Executive Order. The amount of incremental property tax equals the
incremental EAV from the prior year multiplied by the applicable property tax rates. Actual receipts
‘may vary due to delinquencies, sale of prior years’ taxes, and payment of delinquencies. See the
financial report for actual receipts. Table K provides the following information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales tax increment and state sales tax
increment deposited in the fund during the prior calendar year,
“x 32 -

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

2) for a utility tax Project Area, the municipal utility tax increment and the net state utility
tax increment amount deposited in the special allocation fund during the prior calendar
year:

3) fora property tax Project Area, (A) the total initial equalized assessed value of property
within the Project Area as of the date of designation of the area, and (B) the total
equalized assessed value of property within the Project Area as of the most recent
property tax year;

4) the dollar amount of property taxes on property within the Project Area attributable to
the difference between items (3A) and (3)(B) above.

All terms used in Table K relating to increment amounts and equalized assessed value (EAV) are
‘construed as in Section 9 of the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act or the
Mlinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law. Unless otherwise noted, the EAV and property tax
information were obtained from the Cook County Clerk's Office. All sales tax information was
‘obtained from the City of Chicago.

( Certain Contracts of TIF Consultants

‘able L provies information about contacts, i any, between the TIF consultant who was paid by
the City for asistng to esablish the Project Area and paid by any entity that has received or
carrenily receiving payments fnanced by tx increment revenues from the Project Area, The
contents of Table L are based on responses to a mail survey. This survey was sent 0 every
Consultant who has prepared. at least one redevelopment plan for the esublishment of
redevelopment project area within the City in 1998. The Executive Order specifically applies to
‘contracts that the City's x increment advisors or consultants, if any, have entered into with any
city that has received or is receiving payments financed by tax revenues produced by the same
Project Area.

(a2) Compliance Statement Prepared by an Independent Public Accountant

‘As part of the audit procedures performed by independent accountants, certain compliance tests were
performed related to the Project Area. Included in the Annual Report is an audit opinion indicating
‘compliance or non-compliance withthe Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act or the
linois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate. Section (m) provides this statement.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(a) GENERAL DESCRIPTION

‘The Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Project Area is generally bounded by East 40"
Street on the north, South Vincennes Avenue on the east, East Bowen Avenue on the south, and
South Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive on the west. The map below illustrates the location and
‘general boundaries of the Project Area. For precise boundaries, please consult the legal
description in the Redevelopment Plan (Attachment).

(far Lang rte
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

The Project Area was designated by the Chicago City Council on July 13, 1994. The Project
Area may be terminated no later than July 13, 2017,

(©) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

‘The Redevelopment Plan for the Project Area, as amended (if applicable), is contained in this
Report (Attachment).

(@) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS

During 1998, no new agreements were executed in the Project Area
oo

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(¢) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT(S)

TABLE

_DESCRIPTIONOF TIF PROJECTS APPROVED BY THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMVASSION WITH EXPENDTTURES
[DURING THE PRIOR CALENDAR YEAR

tout Cima
ne Mi
Pome

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

() DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS.

i During 1998, there were no TIF debt instruments outstanding forthe Project Area

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS

During 1998, there were no City contracts relating to the Project Area,
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

During 1998, there was no information available regarding public or private investment activity
in the Project Area
Martin Luther King, Jr. Di
1998 Annual Report

e and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area

() DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS

During 1998, the City did not take or divest title 10 real property within the Project Area
‘Additionally, the City was not a lessor or lessee of real property within the Project Area during
i 1998,

13
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
| 1998 Annual Report

() FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
REQUIRED AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Balance sheets
Statements of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance
Notes to financial statenents
REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
Year 2000 readiness disclosure
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Schedule of cash activities
Schedule of expenditures by statutory code
— =e _

=e

Banstey ano Kiener. L.L.P.
Centiriga Pumtic Accountants

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Tlinois

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the 4ist and Martin
Luther King, dr. Drive Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago,
Illinois, as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related statements of
revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for the years then ended.
These financial statenents are the responsibility of the City of Chicago's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
Statements based on our audits.

We conducted cur audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
Obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statenents are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
Significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the dist and Martin
Luther King, dr. Drive Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago,
Hllinois, as of December 31, 1898 and 1397, and the results of ite
operations and changes in fund balance for’ the years then ended in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, in i998 the 4ist and
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago,
Tllinois changed its method of accounting for investments.

2 = oa

a

‘The year 2000 information on pages 7 and 8 is not a required part of the
financial statements, but is supplementary information required by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board, and we did not audit and do not
express an opinion on such information. Purther, we were unable to apply to
the information certain procedures prescribed by professional standards
because of the unprecedented nature of the year 2000 issue and its effects,
and the fact that authoritative measurement criteria regarding the status of
remediation efforts have not been established. In addition, we do not
provide assurance that the City of Chicago is or will become year 2000
Compliant, that the City of Chicago's year 2000 remediation efforts will be
successful in whole or in part, or that parties with which the City of
Chicago does business are or will become year 2000 compliant.

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the
financial statenents taken as a whole. The schedule of cash activities on
page 9 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory code on page 10, which
are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago's management, are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of
the financial statements of dist and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive
Redevelopment Project of the City of chicago, Illinois. Such additional
information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the
audit of the financial statenents and, in our opinion, is fairiy stated in
all material respects when considered in relation to the financial

Statements taken es a whole.
Perky ark Kotrr, LLP,
certified Public Accountants

May 4, 1999
i a ae a ee

ASSETS 12928
cash and investments: $ 94,025
Property taxes receivable 97,000
Accrued interest receivable nasa
Total assets sus2.u77
‘LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Due to other City funds 5 -
Deferred revenue 27,000
Total liabilities 97,000
Fund balance 95,277
Total liabilities and fund balance gu92.177

S$ 2,280

102,250
tee
$232,623

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
Biopefey cox 24,904 $97,572
interest peranaietrt
otal revens 6,039 37,960

Expenditures
Capital projects sea nase
yp Sevens over expenticoes 56,798 36,720
fund balance, beginning of year sams esa
A) rund balance, end of year isan ganze

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
a.

Sumary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Project

The 4ist and Martin luther King, Jr. Drive Tax Increment
Redevelopment Project Area (Project) was established in July 1994
The area has been established to finance improvements, leverage
private investment and create and retain jobs. Reimbursements, if
any, are made to the developer for project costs, public
improvements are completed and pass City inspection.

Basis of Accounting

The Project is accounted for within the special revenue funds
of the City,

‘The financial statements are prepared on the modified accrual
basis of accounting and current financial resources measurement
focus with only current assets and liabilities included on the
balance sheet. Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual, i.e., both
measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current
period. Available means collectible within the current period or
‘Soon enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
period. Expenditures are recorded when the liability is incurred.

Fixed assets are not capitalized in the general operating
funds but, instead, are charged as current expenditures when
purchased. The General Fixed Asset Account Group of the City
Includes the capital assets, if any, of the Project

Management's Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
Make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
MMabilicies at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act Compliance

‘The Project’s expenditures include reimbursements for various
eligible costs as described in subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3
of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act and the
Redevelopment Agreenent relating specifically to the Project.
Eligible costs include but are not limited to survey, property
assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure, financing and
relocation costs.
_ =— 2 ss

a

Note 1 -

SoTe OF CHICAGO, TyLINOrs
AUST _AND MARTI LUTHER KING. Je DRIVE Repevevopwer paovect

(Continued)

summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
cash and Investments

Cash belonging to the City is generally deposited with the
City Treasurer as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago. The
City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City expenditures
which represent a claim for payment when presented to the City
Treasurer. Payment for all City warrants clearing is made by
checks drawn on the City’s various operating bank accounts.

‘The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share responsibility
for investing in authorized investments. interest earned on pooled
investments is allocated to participating funds based upon their
average combined cash and investment balances.

on January 1, 1998, the City adopted GASB Statement No. 31,
*accounting and Financial Reporting for Certain Investments and for
External Investment Pools." Accordingly, the City values its
investments at fair value, or amortized cost.

Property Taxes

Property taxes are susceptible to accrual and recognized
receivable in the year levied. Revenue recognition

unless the taxes are received within 60 days sul
year-end.

= 2

aS CHET

NOI
se

om eo

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE (UNAUDITED)

‘The City's operations, like those of many other business entities, may be
impacted by the inability of certain computer programs and electronic systems
with embedded microprocessor chips to recognize calendar dates beyond the
year 1999. Unless such programs and microprocessors are modified or replaced
prior to the year 2000, they may not function properly after 1999.

The City formed an executive committee in May 1998, to oversee possible

City-wide year 2000 impacts. The Department of Business and Information

Services has been charged with managing the City's year 2000 project. The

year 2000 issue is covered within the scope of the City's year 2000 project.
@ year 2000 project is divided into stages as follows:

Awareness Stage - Establishing a budget and project plan for dealing
with the year 2000 issue.

Assessment Stage - Identifying the mission critical systems, equipment
and individual components for which year 2000 compliance is’ needed.

Remediation Stage - Making changes to systems and equipment.

Validation/testing Stage - Validating and testing the changes that were

made during the remediation stage.

The City committed approximately $28.2 million and $32.0 million in 1998 and
1999, respectively, for the repair and replacement of year 2000 compromised
systems. As of December 31, 1998, the City entered into contracts for
approximately $17.7 million for the test plan development, audit stages and
upgrade of certain software programs.

Mission Critical Applications

‘The City has identified one computer application, the Chicago Accounting and
Purchasing System, as critical to conducting the operations for year 2000
compliance. As of Decenber 31, 1998, the City completed the awareness and
assessment stages, and the remediation stage was in process for the above
mission critical component. This mission critical component is still subject
to the validation/teeting stage. The City-wide completion of all stages is
scheduled for September 1999.

Eabedded systens

The awareness stage, including an inventory of embedded systems has been
completed. Baseline assessment of mission critical functions involving
embedded systems was substantially completed by the end of the first quarter
of 1999. The City has retained outside consultants to manage and implement
completion of this aspect of the year 2000 project by the end of September
1995)

2 os

J me

(Continued)

Other Considerations

‘The City also initiated an assessment of mission critical vendors, which is
being performed by a consultant with oversight from the executive conmittee
to plan for continuity in the City's supply chain. Contingency planning for
mission critical systems and other elements of the year 2000 project is
scheduled to be completed by the end of September 1999.

The above description of the stages of work to address the year 2000 issues
is not a guarantee those systens will be year 2000 compliant. Although the
City is ‘currently on schedule to meet its objectives for year 2000
compliance, there is no assurance that compliance will be achieved in a
timely manner. Further, if the City successfully addresses its year 2000
issues, there is no assurance that any other entity or governmental agency
(including governmental organizations or entities that provide essential
infrastructure) with which the City electronically interacts will be year
2000 compliant. At this time, the City can not determine the potential
Impact of such noncompliance on the business and financial condition or the
results of its operations.

a

— = 2 a
= = =

=

cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received
Payments for capital projects
Interest received

Increase in cash and investments
cash and investments, beginning of year

cash and investments, end of year

Reconciliation of revenues over
expenditures to net cash provided by
operating activities

Revenues over expenditures
Adjustments to reconcile revenues over
expenditures to net cash provided by
operating activities
Changes in assets - (incre
Property tax receivable
Accrued interest receivable
changes in liabilities
Due to other City funds
Deferred revenue

)

$ 94,884 $ 38,028
(40,491) -

379 32

54,772 38,030

Ssk02s 332.253

$ 56,798 $ 36,720

3,000 (98,328)

(776) (376)
(2,250) 2,250
) 98.764

Sser2 s26.030
-10-

Code Description tesa 1297.

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
‘specifications, implementation and administration
| of the redevelopment plan including but not
Limited to staff and professional service costs
for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing $ - — $1,250

| costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction or repair or
remodeling of existing public or private buildings
and fixtures

—_ = = me

=

= e

Martin Luther King, Jr, Drive and 41* Street Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(&) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

MUNICIPAL STATE MUNICIPAL —_NETSTATE
SALESTAX. SALESTAX. UTILITY TAX UTILITY TAX,
YEAR INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT _ INCREMENT.

NAM NAC),

INITIAL

14305

$1,210506

$96.937

_ = 2

=

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

() CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS
During 1998, no TIF consultant was paid by the City for assisting to establish the Project Area

and paid by any entity that has received or is currently receiving payments financed by tax increment
revenues from the Project Area,

16
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41” Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANT

Banstey and Kiener, L.L.P.

‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the balance sheet of dist and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment
Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois as of December 31, 1998, and the
related statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance
for the year then ended, and have issued our report thereon dated May 4,
1599.

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that caused us
to believe that the Project failed to comply with the regulatory
provisions in Subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Illinois Tax
Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (0) of Section
11-74.6-10 of the Illinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law as they relate to
the eligibility for costs incurred incidental to the implementation of the
4ist and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment Project of the City
of Chicago, Illinois.

This report is intended for the information of the City of chicago}
management. However, this report is a matter of public record, and its

Zeelisecicn LIST anita,
Parsleg tak Hanan, Lit,

Certified Public Accountants

May 4, 1999
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41" Street Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

ATTACHMENT
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
me

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE AND FORTY-PIRST STREET
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT
II.

mr.
rw.

vir.

viz.

mx.

xr.

xIr.

xrIz.

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND ELIGIBILITY

Table of contents

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND...
A. The Grand Boulevard Community | | :
B. The Redevelopnent Project Area ("RPA")

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT AREA COALS ax
OBJECTIVES . . : :

A. Redevelopment “pian” ‘and’ ° Project ©

objective: : :
B. General Land use 12) lt
C:  Redevelopment Progran) 3) 11) 1!

‘THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT .... 2...

BLIGHTED AREA. . tee
A. Blighted vacant area) 2211 22)
B.  Blighted improved area) 2 21) ) !

QUALIFICATION OF THE RPA UNDER THE ACT AS A
ESTIMATED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COST . . -

SOURCE OF FUNDS TO PAY REDEVELOPMENT COSTS .
“BUT FOR" TEST... ee
ASSESSMENT OF ANY FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA ON OTHER TAXING
DISTRICTS: ... 2. es tte
MOST RECENT EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION OF
PROPERTIES IN THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

ANTICIPATED EQUALIZED ASSES!

VALUATION . .

ComurTMET To FAIR ENPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION... Dee
SCHEDULING OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING THE TAX INCREMENT

10
10

aa
13
1a
14
16
19
22

23

26

26

27

29

30
LISTS OF EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES

IN APPENDIE
: Exhibits
j Exhibit A - Legal Description
Exhibit B  - Criteria for qualification
{ Exhibit ¢ - Eligibility Report
Exhibit D - Eligible Projected Redevelopment costs
Gap 2 = boundary nap
8 Map 2 - Existing Land Use Map
Map 3 - Proposed Land Use Map
| Table i - _—=Blight ing Factors for Improved Parcels and
Blighting Factors for Vacant Parcels
\ Table 2 = _—Most_ recent. equalized fed valuation

of parcels in the RPA.

ii
Ce

-— =

T. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND:

A. The Gr

Boulevaré Community

The proposed Redevelopment Project Area. and the
proposed Project are located in the City of chicago
in Community Area 38 commonly called Grand
Boulevard.’ Grand Boulevard is bounded by Pershing

Road on the north, Sist str

ton the South, Cottage
Grove on the east, and Rock Island Railroad tracks

on the west. The Grand Boulevard a:

is one of the
poorest communities in chicago, In 1989, in
accordance with the Census data compiled by the city

of Chicago, the Grand Boulevard area had a f

ily
median income of $7,671 (down from $11,640 in 1979)

compared to the family median income for the City of

$30,707 (400% lower). Of the City's seventy-seven

community areas, the Grand Boulevard community had

the fourth highest rate of tax delinquent propertie

(25.52%) in 1987. The rate for the city vas 3.81%.

‘The Grand Boulevard community experienced a 33%

‘the City of Chicago has seventy-seven official
Community Area designations. fach Community Area has
name, e.g., Lincoln Park, Grand Boulevard, etc., and each
Community Area is divided into census tracts.

a 2 w@

decline in population from 1980 to 1990. The

population vent from 53,741 to 35,897.

During the last decade (from 1980 to 1989), the area
Jost 3.3% of its 20,852 dwelling units.. of its
2,859 buildings, approximately 61.0% were in need of
major repair by 1988, compared to the whole city at
7.08%, and of the total buildings, 4.2% were
abandoned compared to the rest of the City at 0.8%.
Another staggering statistic is the percentage of

vacant lots in the are:

35.64% compared to 10.06%

characteristics of the

for the city. Th
Community Area (Grand Boulevard) are even nore

prevalent in the proposed Redevelopment Project Ar

and will be presented and documented throughout this
Redevelopment Plan and Project (the "Plan") and the

Eligibility Report.

‘There were 1,007 new dwelling units built in Grand
Boulevard from 1980 to 1989. of the total during
‘this period, approximately 37.4% (377 units) vere
developed by Peoples Consumer Co-operative, the
Sponsor of the proposed Project, utilizing

government assisted financing. These units were
1s of the Paul

developed as the third and fourth phi
of

G. Stewart Apartments. (The first four pha
the Paul G. Stevart Apartments are shown on Map 3,
which is attached to and made a part of this
Redevelopment Plan and Project. The first tvo
phases were developed during the period 1971 to 1979
and consisted of 420 units. These units were also
developed and built through the use of government
assisted programs. Together the four phases

comprise 707 units of housing for the elderly and 90

family units.

‘The city played a major role in the fourth phase
development by assisting in acquiring the land
through the former Department of Urban Renewal
("DUR"), one. soof «the «parcels within the
Redevelopment Project Area is currently under the
same Redevelopment Agreement with DUR vhich governed
Phase Four. The success of the earlier phases of
the Paul G. Stevart Apartments vas based on the

availability of government a

isted financing. The

government programs vhich vere used to develop the

first four phases are no longer available to assist

in developing affordable housing. Therefore, the
use of tax increment revenue is an important
resource in helping to meet the goals of developing
affordable housing for very low, low, and moderate

income persons.

B. The Redevelopment Project Area ("RPA")

‘The proposed RPA is approximately 4.71 acres

excluding street a

s. Including street areas, the
RPA is approximately 7 acres. The proposed tax
increment RPA boundaries:

run from the center of the intersection of East
40th Street and South Vincennes Avenue southward
to the center of the intersection of South
Vincennes Avenue and East Bowen Avenue, west to
the center of East Bowen Avenue and South Martin
Luther King Drive, north to the center of the
intersection of South Martin Luther King Drive
and East 41st Street, east to the center of the
alley located approximately 175' from Martin
Luther King Drive, south approximately 120' to
the center of the’ alley mid-block between East
41st Street and East Bowen Avenue, east
approximately 100' to the boundary of 429 and
431 East 41st Street, north between the parcels
to the center of East sist Street, east to the
boundary of 460 and 462 East 41st Street, north
to the center of the alley mid-block between
East 40th Street and East dist Street, east
approximately 25' to the eastern boundary of 65
East 40th Street, north along the eastern
boundary of 465 East 40th Street to the center
of East 40th Street, and then east to the center
of the intersection of East 40th Street and
South Vincennes Avenue.

Map 1 shows the boundaries of the RPA and also shows

the location of the RPA in respect to Phases I-IV of

the Paul G. Stewart apartments. © The legal
description of the RPA is also attached and made a

part hereof as Exhibit A.

ALL of the land use in the RPA is residential, as
shown in the Existing Land Use Map, Map 2, which is
attached to and nade a part of this Plan and would
pernit multi-family and single family housing units.
Approximately 90% of the land in the RPA is vacant.
The buildings which remain are either dilapidated
and abandoned or in need of substantial
rehabilitation. The RPA on the whole has not been
subject to growth and development through investment
by private enterprise and would not reasonably be
anticipated to be developed without the adoption of

the redevelopzent plan.

The city vill encourage redevelopment projects in
the RPA in order to increase the number of
affordable housing units. The modest number of
nevly constructed multi-family housing units which

has occurred near the RPA has been accomplished

5
= me

utilizing federal deep subsidy programs. In the
absence of these dollars, or other subsidies in
their stead, it is not possible to develop housing
to meet affordable housing needs of the neighbor-

hood market. Investment solely through. private

enterprise can only create housing at a price too
high to meet the need for affordable housing in the
RPA. If a redevelopment plan is not adopted vhich

addre! the characteristic market needs of the

RPA, and which provides a practical, sound method
for financing the proposed redevelopnent project, as
well as other redevelopment projects, it is probable
‘the land which is vacant vill remain vacant into the

unforeseeable future and the remaining structures

will probably continue to deteriorate and eventually
will need to be razed. Thus, more vacant land vill
be created and the tax base will continue to erode.

‘This Plan has been prepared to address the n

1s of

the city in meeting its redevelopment goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan of chicago,

dated December, 1966 and a:

so the goals and
objectives of its Comprehensive Housing
Affordability Strategy ("CHAS") prepared by the city

of Chicago Department of Housing as they relate to
the RPA using tax increment financing ("TIF") to

meet these goals and objectives.’ rt should be noted

chat paragraph 1266, Sec. 16 of the "Illinois

Affordable Housing Act" provides for"... the use of
tax increment financing to increase the availability
of affordable housing." Tax increment financing is
provided for by the Tax Increment Allocation

Redevelopment Act, as amended (the "Act").

The development of additional housing in the RPA,
through the use of tax increment financing will act
as a stimulus and a catalyst to attract and
encourage other development. As the Project and
other development activity take place, in tine,
blighted conditions will be eliminated. In the
final analysis the implementation of the
Redevelopnent Plan and Project will have positive,
long term benefits to the city of Chicago and all of

the taxing districts which are included in the RPA.

® ‘the City of Chicago is required to submit to the U.S.
Departzent of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") pursuant
to Section 10S of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act of 1991, a Comprehensive Housing Affordability
Strategy. Initially, the City was required to prepare a
five year plan. Thereafter, the City must submit annual
updates of its housing strategy.

7
= e

‘The real estate tax base will be expanded; excess
revenue will be generated; and jobs fron
construction and ongoing property managenent will be

available.

IT. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT AREA GOALS AND
OBJECTIVES
The goals and objectives which follow for the RPA
are in accordance with the objectives of the Tax Increment
Redevelopment Allocation Act (the "Act") and the city's

cuas.

A, Redevelopment Pian and Project objectives

‘The City seeks to achieve the folloving objectives
by encouraging the development and redevelopaent of
RPA through various public financing techniques
including, but not limited to, Tax Increment

Financing:

Eliminating slum and blighted conditions.
Providing affordable housing units for very
low income, low income, and moderate incone

families.

Providing for stability of the. RPA by
entertaining development proposals for

residential redevelopnents,
Preserving the architectural and historical
characteristics of the surrounding

neighborhood,

Enhancing the

x base of the affected

taxing districts,

Attracting both public and private
investment in the RPA.

Providing opportunities for women and

minority busin

to share in the
redevelopment of the area.

Encouraging development and redevelopaent in

an Enterprise Zone area.

9
| Contributing to the health, velfare, and

safety of the

10. Improving the infrastructure of the RPA.

B. General Land use

‘The existing land consists of approximately 4.7
acres of land zoned for residential use, including
the land which fronts on Dr. King Drive. (Map 2.)
Map 3 attached hereto and made part of the Plan
designates the intended land use in the RPA as
residential, single and multi-family. The RPA
conforms to the strategic economic development plans
or redevelopment plans issued by the designated
planning authority of the city and includes land
uses that have been approved by the plan commission
of the city. All the parcels in the RPA will be

benefited by the Plan and Project.

20
= 2 es

qIr.

C. Redevelopment Program

In order to achieve the foregoing objectives in the
RPA, the City will pursue a coordinated program of
action to assist and facilitate residential
development. The city will seek and encourage the
rehabilitation of existing structures, if feasible,
and new construction for both single family
dwellings and multi-family dvellings by all

qualified developers.

01 PRogecr (th ject"

‘The Project vill be the development of housing in
the RPA and infrastructure related thereto, The
housing vill include multifamily developments and
may include single family townhouses. It is
contemplated that the first structure to be built is
to be a 13 story highrise building of reinforced
concrete with an exterior brick finish. rt will

contain approximately 96 dvelling units

‘This Project in the RPA will aid in revitalizing an

important area of the City, Located in the Grand

aa
ome — _

Boulevard community, the RPA is very convenient to
downtown Chicago, approximately 4 miles north, and
to the lakefront, approximately 1.5 miles east. The
site has excellent access to public transportation.
Buses on King Drive and the elevated train at 43rd

Street and Prairie run on a 24 hour schedule.

All of the property in the RPA is expected to be
developed or redeveloped in the next ten years.
Since there is so much vacant property in the RPA,
it is Likely that a variety of styles and types of
occupancy vill take place, including owner-occupied
single-family housing as vell as renter-occupied
tovnhouses and garden apartments. The few existing
non owner occupied buildings which remain in the RPA
will probably be razed and redeveloped, because they
have deteriorated past the point of being feasible

to rehabilitate. Those buildings which are own

occupied are more likely to be remodeled.

The city will encourage the development and

redevelopment of the land provided that each

proposal conforms to the current zoning ordinance

32
ae

(as amended and revised from tine to time) and is

consistent with other City ordinances and plans.

Each phase of the Project vill generate construction

jobs and material suppliers. Although construction
Jobs generated within the RPA are not permanent, the
ripple effects of construction jobs are well
documented. Permanent jobs that will be generated
include such jobs as service jobs in property

manag

nt, property maintenance, and marketing.
Development activity in the proposed RPA could
stimulate private development activity outside of

the RPA.

Findings to Conditions fxisting in the
Redevelopment Project Area

‘The Act provides that an area may be designated as
a redevelopment project area, if it qualifies as a

“blighted area."

aa
a

After studying the conditions which exist within the
RPA, it is determined that the RPA meets the
criteria to qualify both the vacant and improved
parcels as blighted area as defined in the Act. The

whole RPA therefore qualifies as blighted area.

Blighted vacant ares.
The vacant parcels meet the criteria for
"blighted" as defined in the Act based on the
following factors specified by the Act which are

present which impair the growth of property

value!

obsolete platting of the vacant land;
diversity of ownership of the land,
deterioration of structure and site improvements

in neighboring areas adjacent to the vacant

land. only two of these factors are required to
be present to quality the vacant parcels as
being blighted under the Act. Three factors are
present. Map 2 of the eligibility report, which
is also Map 2 of this Plan, shows the location
of vacant land and improvenents in the RPA. As
described in detail in the Eligibility Report,
there are at least eight different owners of

vacant land in the RPA. As illustrated on Map

14
= se a

2, the parcels are not of such a size as to

accommodate proposed projects.

Blighted improved area.
The improved properties meet the criteria of the

Act as blighted improved ar The improved

properties meet the blighted area criteria as
defined in the Act based on the following

age; depreciation of physical

deterioration; dilapidatior
obsolescence; presence of structure below

minimum code standards; excessive vacancii

lack of comsunity planning, all of which are
detrizental to the public safety, health, norals
or welfare. Five of these factors need be
Present to qualify the area as a blighted area,
but at least eight eligibility factors are
present. A description of the criteria for
blighting factors pertaining to improvenents is
set forth in Exhibit B which is attached to and

made a part of this Plan.

A detailed analysis of the blighted conditions

causing qualification is set forth in the

as
ee

=e

Eligibility Report which is attached as Exhibit
€. Table 1 of the Eligibility Report which
indicates the comprehensive nature of the
existence of these factors is also attached to

this Plan.

ESTIMATED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COST

Pursuant to the Act, redevelopment project costs
mean and include the sum total of all reasonable or
necessary costs incurred or estimated to be
incurred, and any such costs incidental to this
Redevelopment Plan and Project. Eligible costs may

include!

Costs of studies, surveys, development of
plans and specifications, implementation and
administration of the ‘redevelopment plan
including but not limited to staff and
professional service costs for
architectural, engineering, _ legal,
marketing, financial, planning or other
services, provided however that no charg
for professional services may be based on
percentage of the tax increment collected;

Property assembly costs, including but not
Limited to acquisition of land and other
Property, real or personal, or rights or
interests therein, demolition of buildings,
and the clearing and grading of land;

16
=

Costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction or
repair or remodeling of existing public or
private buildings and fixtures;

Costs of the construction of public works or
improvements;

costs of job training and retraining
projects;

Financing costs, including but not limited
to all necessary and incidental expenses
related to the issuance of obligations and
which may include payment of interest on any
obligations issued hereunder accruing during
the estimated period of construction of any
redeveloprent project for which such
obligations are issued and for not exceeding
36 months thereafter and including
reasonable reserves related thereto;

All or a portion of a taxing district's
capital costs resulting from the
redevelopment project necessarily incurred
or to be incurred in furtherance of the
objectives of the redevelopment plan and
Project, to the extent the municipality by
written’ agreement accepts and approves such
costs;

Relocation costs to the extent that a
municipality determines that relocation
costs shall be paid or is required to make
payment of relocation costs by federal or
State law;

Payment in lieu of taxes;

Costs of job training, advanced vocational
education or career education, including but
not limited to courses in’ occupational,
semi-technical or technical fields leading
directly to employsent, incurred by one or
more taxing districts, provided that such
costs (i) are related to the establishzent
and maintenance of additional job training,
advanced vocational education or career

Py
aa.

education programs for persons employed or
to be employed by employers located in a
redevelopment project area; and (ii) when
incurred by a taxing district or taxing
districts other than the municipality, are
t forth in a written agreement by or among
the municipality and the taxing district or
taxing districts, which agreement describes
the program to be undertaken, including but
not limited to the number of employees to be
trained, a description of the training and
services to be provided, the number and type
of positions available or to be available
itemized costs of the program and sources of
funds to pay for the same, and the term of
the agreenent.. such "costs include,
specifically, ‘the payment by community
college districts of costs pursuant to
Sections 3-37, 3-38, 3-40 and 3-40.21 of the
Public Community College Act and by school
districts of costs pursuant to Sections 10-
22-20a and 10-23.3a of The School code;

Interest cost incurred by a redeveloper
related to the construction, renovation or
Tehabilitation of a redevelopment project
provided that:

(a) such costs are to be paid directly trom
the special tax allocation fund
established pursuant to this Act; and

(») such payments in any one year may not
exceed 30% of the annual interest costs
incurred by the redeveloper with regard
to the redevelopment project during that
year;

(c) if there are not sufficient funds
available in the special tax allocation
fund to make the payment pursuant to
this paragraph 11 then the amounts so
due shall accrue and be payable when
sufficient funds are available in the
special tax allocation fund; and

1s
= - aa

(a) the total of such interest payments paid
pursuant to this Act may not exceed 30%
of the total (i) cost paid or incurred
by the redeveloper for the redevelopment
project plus (ii) redevelopment project
Gosts excluding any property assembly
costs and any relocation costs incurred
by a municipality pursuant to this Act.

Estimated eligible Redeveloped Project Costs for the
area are shown on Exhibit D which is attached to and
made a part of the Plan. To the extent that Project
costs have been incurred prior to, but in
anticipation of the adoption of tax increment
financing, and thereafter after tax increnent
financing has been adopted, those eligible costs may
be reimbursed. Reasonable adjustments in the cost

items listed from time to tit

may be made in the
projections vithout amendment to the Redevelopment
Plan. Funds may be moved from one line iten to
another or to an eligible cost category described in
this Plan and may be adjusted upward by the annual

rate of inflation.

SOURCE OF PUNDS 70 PAY REDEVELOPMENT COSTS

The source of Funds to pay redevelopment costs is

the real estate tax increment generated by the

as
increase in assessed value of properties included in
the RPA. It is contemplated that most of the Tax
Increment Revenue will be applied to the interest
subsidy. The interest subsidy will be applied
toward the annual debt service on the nortsage of
the first nultifamily structure to be built. Tax
Increment Revenue may be available to cover other
eligible costs in the RPA and/or distributed to the
taxing districts. Except as the City's commitment
to pay the interest subsidy from Tax Increment
Revenue to the extent that it is available may be
termed an obligation of the city, it is not
anticipated that the City will issue obligations to
fund the development of the first multifamily
structure. The city may, however, determine it is
desirable to issue revenue or general obligations
secured by the tax increment special tax allocation
fund established for the RPA pursuant to Section 11
74.4-7 of the Act oF such other funds or security as
are available to the city by virtue of its povers
under the Act and as provided by the Constitution of

the State of rilinois.

20
_ 2 oe

All obligations issued by the city pursuant to this
Redeveloprent Plan and Project and the Act shall be
retired not nore than twenty-three (23) years fron
the date of adoption of the ordinance approving the
RPA. However, the final maturity date. of any
obligations issued pursuant to the Act may not be

later than ts

nty (20) years from its respective
date of issuance. one or nore series of obligations
may be issued from time to time in order to
implement this Redevelopment Plan and Project. All
obligations are to be covered after issuance by

Projected and actual tax increment, other tax

revenue and by such debt service revenues and

Sinking funds as may be provided by ordinance. The
‘total principal and interest payable in any year on
all obligations shall not exceed the amounts
available in that year, or projected to be available

in that year, from tax increment revenues and from

bond sinking funds, capitalized interest, debt
service reserve funds and all other sources of funds

as may be provided by ordinance.

‘Those revenues not required for principal and

inte

st payments, required reserves, bond sinking

22
= 2 ee

vir.

funds, redevelopnent project costs and reserves
required to fund such costs, early retirement of
outstanding securities, and to facilitate the
econcnical issuance of additional bonds necessary to
accomplish the redevelopment plan, may be declared
surplus and shall then becone available for
@istribution annually to taxing districts
overlapping the RPA in the manner provided by the

act.

Such securities may be issued on either a taxable or
tax-exempt basis, with either fixed interest rates
or floating interest rates; vith or without
capitalized interest; vith or without deferred
principal retirement; with or without interest rate

limits, and with or without redemption provisions.

“BUT FOR" TEST
‘The continued existence of vacant properties which

characterizes most of the RPA, as well as the lack

of rehabilitation of existing structures is evidence

indicating that the RPA as a whole has not been

subject to growth and development through investnent

by private enterprise. Most of the parcels in the

22
RPA have been vacant for more than ten years. "But
for" the TIF no projects would be feasible in the
RPA. The creation of the TIF district will enable
redevelopnent to occur in an economically depressed

area where otherwise the development of affordable,

new construction housing would be infeasible.

vriz.

Based on the established "but for" of the RPA and

= 5 =

the projects which will follow, the redeveloped ar;
| will be positively impacted. There will be little,

if any, short term, financial impact on most of the

taxing districts. The districts could benefit trom

the distribution of excess revenue granted by the

district after eligible costs are covered. All of
a the taxing districts will benefit from the long-
term financial impact of the TIF. At the end of the
‘TIF term of 23 years, all of the projects in the TIF

district are to pay full real estate taxes. The

following is an assessment of the financial impact

on the various taxing districts:

23
Cook County and Cesk County Health Facilities:
‘There will be no or little financial impact.
Health services to the projected population of
the RPA vill not result in a net increase in

health services provided by County facilities.

Little financial impact.

e 21 = : There

will be no financial impact.

ats mation
Greater Chicago: There will be no or little
financial impact. Sewer lines are available to
service the RPA.

Sommunity Collese District 508: There will be
no or little financial impact. The projected
population of the RPA vill not result in a net
increase in the Chicago City Colleges. To the
extent that there are students from the RPA the
impact would be the sane if they lived outside
of the RPA.

24
city of chicase. There will be no negative

financial impact and ne expected increase in

a vacant and abandoned

nd for City Servic

propertit

provide opportunities for .criminal
activity such as drug sales and arson.
Redevelopment in the RPA will help reduce the

a in the

nd for City Police and Fire Servic

RPA. AS projects are developed in the RPA, the
requirenent for City Services should be typical
of other normal developed neighborhoods. The
RPA will have a positive impact on the city's
econcnic developent and availability of

affordable housing.

Board of Education: Th

impact. There will be an incr

will be some financial

in demand for

school services as a result of children of

tenants vho reside in the projects in the RPA.
Because of a dramatic drop in population in the
Grand Boulevard Community, schools which serve

‘the RPA have excess capacity,
=

eae

Ix.

80 new building facilities vill not be required.®

Since there will be no financial impact on the taxing
districts, it would be premature to establish
programs to address such financial impact or

increased demand for services at this tine.

MOST RECENT EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION oF
PROPERTIES IN THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

It is estimated that the most recent equalized

assessed valuation for the RPA is approximately

$111,634. See Table 2 attached.
ANTICIPATED EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION
qt is

timated that the Projected equalized assessed

valuation of r

1 property within the RPA will be

approximately $2,100,000 for land and improvements
as a result of the development of the first

multifamily structure. After full development of the

3 the schools which serve the RPA are King High School

and Fuller Elementary School. According to officials at
said schools, both schools are currently operating below
maximum capacity.

26
xr.

RPA it is anticipated that the projected equalized

ass

fed valuation of real property in the RPA will

be $5,000,000.

‘commrmment _T0__EAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND
AEFIRMATIVE ACTION

As part of any Redevelopment Agreement entered into
by the city and any private developers, both will
agree to establish and implement a goal-oriented
afeirmative action program that serves appropriate

sectors of the city.

With respect to the public/private development's

internal operation:

both entities will pursue

employment practic

which provide equal opportunity

to all people regardless of sex, color, race, creed,

age, national origin, marital status or the presence
of physical handicaps. Neither party vill
countenance discrimination against any esployee or
applicant because of sex, color, race, creed, age,
national origin, marital status, or the presence of
physical handicaps. «These _nondiscriminatory

practices will apply to all areas of employment,

27
on &

including: hiring, upgrading and pronotions,
terminations, compensation, benefit programs and

education opportunities.

AlL those involved with

ployment activities will
be responsible for conformance with this policy and
compliance with the requirements of applicable state

and federal regulations.

The City and private developers will adopt policy
of equal employment opportunity and will include or
require the inclusion of this statement in all
contracts and subcontracts at any level.
Additionally, any public/private entities will seek
to ensure and maintain a working environment free of
harassment, intimidation, and coercion at all sites,

and in all facilitic

at which all employees are
assigned to work. It shall be specifically ensured

that all on-site supervisory personnel are avare of

and carry out the obligation to maintain such vorking
environment, with specific attention to ninority

and/or female individuals.

28
+ a

XII.

Finally, the entities will utilize affirmative action

to ensure that business opportunities are provided

and that job applicants are employed and treated in
a nondiscriminatory manner. Underlying this policy
is the recognition by the entities that successful
affirmative action programs are important to the

continued growth and vitality of the community.

SCHEDULING OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Completion of Redevelopment Project and Retirement
of Obligations to Finance Redevelopment costs

‘This Redevelopment Plan and Project will be completed
on or before a date twenty-three (23) years from the
adoption of an ordinance designating the RPA. The
city thus expects that the Redevelopment Project will
be completed sooner than the maximum tine limit set
by the Act. Actual public and/or private

construction activitic

are anticipated to be
completed within ten (10) years from the adoption of
this Redevelopment Plan and Project. The City may

issue bonds to fund redevelopment project costs.

29
— ss a

xrzz.

‘This Redevelopment Plan and Project may be amended

pursuant to the provisions of the act.

30
EXHIBIT A

TAX INCREMENT FINANCING DISTRICT

pagceseye

las

i He ee

is

agerates
ae a eth i Fl
a Et lis a a
ce ie a

ie in i

ptt _
q Lee i
nae ae a
nes cen
Ss = -_ 3 SS

ast
purposes of the analysis of structures as follow:

1.

10.

EXHIBIT B

‘The criteria listed in the Act were defined for

Illegal_Use of structure: The presence on the
Property of illegal uses or activities.

Atructure Belov Minimum Code standards: Local
standards of building, fire, housing, zoning,
subdivision or lack of conformance with other
applicable governmental codes.

Excessive Vacancies: When the occupancy or use level
of the building is low for frequent or lengthy
periods so as to represent an adverse area influence.

c? tor 6.
Conditions vhich vould negatively influence the
health and welfare of building users.

Inadequate Utilities: Deficiencies in sewer, vater
supply, storm drainage, electricity, streets or other
necessary site services.

Dilapidation: The condition where the safe use of
the building is seriously impaired, as evidenced by
substandard structural conditions; this is an
advanced state of deterioration.

Obsolescence: When the structure has become or will
soon become ill-suited for the originally designed

Deterioration: A condition where the quality of the
building has declined in terns of structural
integrity and/or building systems due to lack of
investment, misuse or age.

i 2
‘A level of use beyond a designed or legally permitted
level.

verage: Site coverage of an
unacceptably high level.
ii, Releterious Land vse or Layout: Inappropriate
Property use oF plotting, or other negative
influences not othervise covered, which discourages
investment in a property.

22. Depreciation of Physical Maintenance: Decline in
property saintenance which leads to building
Gegeneration, health and safety hazards, unattractive
nuisances, unsightliness, property value decline and
area distress.

33. ‘Lack _of Community Planning: Deficiency in local
direction of growth, development or redevelopzent in
order to maintain or enhance the viability of the
area or community.

Methodology

‘The RPA has been evaluated in its qualification as
a "blighted area" on an area-wide basis. The RPA has been
evaluated according to the appropriate qualification
features listed in the Act.

saodew Aaytrqrotta
9 arexmxa
‘TAX INCREMENT FINANCING ELIGIBILITY REPORT.

March 23, 2994

to: City of Chicago

From: Joel Stauber. 0'Donneli Wickluné Pigozz: &
eterscn Architects, inc

Re PROPOSED DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING DR. AND 4187 ST.

TAX INCREMENT REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

the purpose of
lated =o the

report is to sumnari
osed tax sncrenent financ:
and Martin Luther King Drive in

fe report is divided inco four parts

tion of the proposed Redevelopment
S. review of compliance with the
nt Allocation Redevelopment Act (TIF
Act) revised in ‘and documentation of factors which
the district under "blighted improved" and
“blighted vacant” sectzons of this Act.

nicago.
ween’ exana:

illinois Tax

ment financing district
e center of the intersection of

East 40th street and South Vincennes Avenue souchward

fe proposed tax

center of
and South Sr. Martin Luther King
Drive, north zo the center of the intersection of
Luther King Drive and East dist
@ast to che center of the alley located
approximately 175’ from Dr. Martin Luther King Drive,
South approximately 120° to the center of the alley
mid-block between East 41st Street and East Sowen
Avenue, east approximately 100’ to the boundary of
429 and 431 East dist Street, north between the
parceis to the center of East éist Street, east to

me 3123329800

East 40th Screec,
horch along of 465 East 40th
‘Zo the center of East 40th Street. and then

the intersect:on of East 40th
ennes Avenue (see Map

Street and Sou
attached).

the ss

strict :s Located within R¢ and RS zoning
ications and Residential Planned Development
No. 399 (see Map facned). The proposed RPA
includes preco: vacant land with eight

Fesidentia: Du: three of waich are curr
occupied
Information Sources;

Chicago Zoning Ordinance: Title 17 Municipal code

of Chicago. 2993

2. Sanborn Map Company Inc.. Street Map, Revised by
the Departnent of Planning May, 2980

| Survey, Aerial Photo at :"*100".

<2

B._TIF ACT COMPLIANCE
2. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

shed Th renensive 21:
3966. ‘This plan has been used as a
guide for development in tne City and is of a form
and substance consistent with comprenensive planning.

The City of Chicago pub!

2. REDEVELOPMENT AREA

The proposed 8PA :5 co! us and contained within a
Single per:neter Soundary. The RPA has not been used
for conmercal agricuitural purposes in the last five

years.

the RPA are :mproved with
busldings end will be evaluated with qualification
factors for "blignted improved" (see Map 2
residential use parcels). All eight parcels have
three story masonry structures, with the building at
458-460 East Sowen Avenue appearing to contain
residential apartnencs.

Eight parcels

vacant and will be evaluated
sr "blighted vacant".

3. SIZE OF RPA

The RPA is substantzally larger than the minimum 1.5
acre required by the TIF Act, It encompasses 60 ax
parcels and totals approximately 7.5 acres of land
including the street right of ways (4.71 acres
parcels only).

Proposed <ist
Marca 23, :39¢
Page 4

4.0 “SUBSTANTIALLY BENEFIT"

prope:
Substantzally penet:)
‘The redevelopment pi

nan piece-neal,

to assure that the components of the

onpine to meet contemporary Gevelopnent:
and standards

eiiitates elimination of

¢. A reasonable and defined tine period to
bute productively to the economic
vitality of the RPA.

4. Enhancement of vacant land in the RPA.

fluence on properties near the

e. A positive
RPA.

5. "BUT FORT

‘The RPA nes been :m net economic decline. with no
ate investment over the past 25 years
aikely continue its economic decline waenout
the adoption of the TIF/RPA. While there has been
development in the ast 30 years in nearby properties
(Paul 6. Stewart Apartments), all of :t has been with
assistance from federal funding. The current
blighting conditions in the RPA seriously inpa:
viability of private residential development. The
Redevelopnent Plan sakes residential development
viable through estaplishment of a TIF district.

6. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

‘The Redevelopment Flan :s consistent with The
Comprenensive Plan of Chicago of 1966, che 1993
Chicago Zoning Ord:nance and the 1993’ Mid-souch
Strategic Deveicpnent Pian. The following are Key
aspects of these crdinances or policies of

development.

a. Comprenens:ve Plan strategic objectives which
include enpnasis on expanded opportunities
e G:sadvantaged. proper allocation of
iand. eccromie development and job
and family life and the

e Plan policies for resident:
nclude making decent. safe. and
ery Housing available to all incone
expand the total housing supply

in the city, and to provide nore

sity in choices of housing type within
the City,

¢. Comprenensive Plan designates the area as a
Demonstration City Opportunity Area waich has
potential for coordinated physical-social
improvenen: programs where supstantial
Glearance would present opportunities for new
Rousing. and an emphasis would be on aiding
people to becone self-sufficient and to nove
Up out cf the poverty bracket.

4. The Mid-South Plan strategic assessment
indicates that the area should be heavily
Fesidentza! and should accommodate housenolds
with a wide range of incomes: that population
densities snould be large enough to support a
wide variety of retail establishnents.
conmunity services, and transportation modes:
and that redevelopment of the community
should not mean displacement of current
residents, but instead, the creation of
opportunities for them.

‘on to Sus Route 3 on Dr. Martin
ng Drive, the nearby Green
currently closed for
Provide transit access

G zy's Comprehensive Housing Afford-
regy (FY 1994 to FY 1998)
ic TIPS will be used as 2

3 housing delivery system to assist i:
inplenentation of its housing policies and

Deparcnent of Planning and Development. the
Somprenensive Pian of Chicago, December 1966
Wendell Campbell Assoc:
Estate Analysis. Mig@:

Eleni Restore sronzevilie. Sepremper 1993

Chicago Transit Authority. System Mep, March 1991

ates. Inc. & Applied Real

Conversation with Sheri Hearmb of the Chicago
Transit Authority, February 15, 1994

City of chicago. ¥
f racegy, FY 1994 to FY 1998
|
ia
LW
Ph
EI

pears tee

al

1998 annual Report
Martin Luther King, Jr. orive
and élst street

Redevelopment Project Area
Pursuant to Mayor's

Executive Order 97-2

JUNE 20, 1999

1 1 city of chicago

1 Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Department of Planning

and Development,

Christopher R. 11411

. * Commissioner

121 North Lasalle street
Chicago. rllinois 60602

(3 12) 744-41 90

(3 12) 744-227 1 (FAX)
http://www .ci chi. LT. us
NEIGHEORHOQDS
pease

BI 2IL01NC C#fl Cru ; © T OGETH ER
gune 20, 1999

‘The Honorable Mayor Richard M. Daley, Members

of the City Council, and Citizens of the city of
chicago

City of chicago

121 N. LaSalle street

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Ladies and Gentlemen

The attached information for the Martin Luther King,
ge, Drive and dlat

Street Redevelopment Project Area, along with 63
other individual reports,

is presented pursuant to the Mayoral Executive order
97-2 (Executive

order) regarding annual reporting on the City's tax
increment financing

(TIT) districts.

‘The City's TIT program has been used to finance
neighborhood and downtoxn improvenents, leverage
private investment,

and create and retain jobs throughout Chicago.
Pursuant to the Executive Order, the Annual Report,
presented in the form

of the attached, will be filed with the city Clerk
for transmittal to the City

Council and be distributed in accordance with the
Executive Order.

Sincerely,

Christopher R. Hill

Commiseioner

Department of Planning and Development
meagre: (>

walter K. Knorr
Chief Financial officer

yin

fey
S19 ERNST & YOUNG LLP

June 20, 1999

Mr. Christopher R. Hill

Commisaione:

Department of Planning and Development

421 N. LaSalle st.

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Commissioner Hill:

a suito-wo

AL \lorth canal

Chicago. Illinois 60606

«Phone: 3 12 P,I'3 2000

Enclosed is the required annual report for the Martin
luther King, Jr. Drive and 4ist street
Redevelopment Project Area, which we compiled at the
direction of the Department of Planning

and Development pursuant to the Mayor's Executive
Order 97-2. The contents are based on

information provided to us by the Chicago Departments
of Planning and Development, Finance,

and Law Department. We have not audited, verified, or
applied agreed upon procedures to the

data contained in this report. Therefore, we express
no opinion on its accuracy or completeness.

The report includes the City's data methodology and
interpretation of Executive Order 97-2 in

addition to required information. The tables in this
report use the same lettering system as the
Executive Order in order to allow the reader to.
locate needed information quickly.

It has been a pleasure to work with representatives
from the Department of Planning and

Development and other City departments.

y ery truly yours,

Sogni-Le

Eenet © Young LLP

Ernst & Young UP is a member of Ernst ¢ Young
International, Ltd,
ae
afeeeg
tite
ati

a

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

ANNUAL REPORT- MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE AND 41s7
STREET REDEVELOPMENT

PROJECT AREA IN COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION (4) OF THE
97-2

PURPOSE OF REPORT

(a) GENERAL DEscRIPTION

(©) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

PAGE
7
@
(c) coPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

@
(d) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND
REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
@
(e) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT (S)

°
(£) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS

10
(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY coNTRACTS

(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

Fe
(i) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS

a
G) FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER

ia
(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT.

15
(2) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIE CONSULTANTS

16
(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT . cevseeeeeee

Fe]

(n) ATTACHMENT- REDEVELOPMENT
a

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

Purpose ofReport:

The purpose of the Annual Report for the Martin
luther King, Jr. Drive and 4ist street
Redevelopment Project Area (Report) is to provide
information regarding the city of Chicago (city)

tax increment financing (TIF) districts in existence
on December 31, 1998, as required by the

Mayor's Executive Order 97-2 (Executive Order). This
Report covers the Martin Luther King, Jz.

Drive and dist street Redevelopment Project Area
(Project Area)

Methodology:

In the process of providing information about the
Project Area, care was taken to follow the
organization of the Executive Order to allow the
reader to locate needed information in an efficient
manner. The Report reflects only TIF economic
activity during 1998, also referred to in this report

as "the prior calendar year." As outlined below,
Several assumptions were made concerning certain
required information.

(a) General Description

The general boundaries of the Project Area are
described and illustrated in a map. However, in order

to provide ease of reading, only major boundary
streets are identified. For exact boundaries, the
interested reader should conault the legal
description of the Project Area boundaries found in
the

Redevelopment Plan (attachment)

(b) Date of Designation and Termination

For purposes of this Report, the date of termination
is assumed to occur 23 years from the date of
deeignation, the maximum duration currently allowed
under the Tax Increment Allocation

Redevelopment Act.

(c) Copy of Redevelopment Plan

The Redevelopment Plan, as amended (if applicable),
for the Project Area is provided as the

Attachment at the end of the Report.

a

i
1
)
has

rer)

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and art street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(qd) Description of Intergovernmental and
Redevelopment Agreements

Table D describes agreements related to the Project
Agea which are either intergovernmental

agreements between the City and another public entity
oF redevelopment agreements between the

City and private sector entities interested in
redeveloping all or a portion of the Project Area.
me
date of recording of agreements executed by the City
in 1998 and filed with the Cook County

Recorder of Deeds is included in Table 0 (if
applicable)

(e) Description oftIF Projects

Table £ describes each TIF project in the Project
Area that has already received approval by the
Community Development Commission, and which received
TIP financing during 1998. Those

projects in discussion, pre-proposal stage with a
developer, or being reviewed by Conmunity
Development Commission staff are not "projects" for
purposes of the Report. The amount budgeted

for project costs and the estimated timetable were
obtained from the Project Area's

Antergovernmental or redevelopment agreements, if
such agreenents exist. Table £ specifically

1) the nature of the project;

2)

3)

fn

5)

the budgeted project cost and the amount of TIF.
assistance allocated to the project;

the estimated timetable and a statement of any change
in the estimate during the prior

calendar year;

total City tax increment project expenditures during
the prior calendar year and total City

tax increment project expenditures to date;

a description of all TIF financing, including type,
date, terms, amount, project recipient,

and purpose of project financing.

2

ert
i

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and are street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(£) Description of all TIF bebt Instruments

Table F describes all TIF debt instruments related to
the Project Area in 1998. It should be noted

that debt instruments issued without a security
pledge of incremental taxes or direct payments from
incremental taxes for principal and interest are not
included in Table F, as such instruments do not
qualify as TIF debt instruments as defined by the
Executive Order. Table F includes:

1) the principal dollar amount ofTIF debt

2) the date, dollar amount, interest rate, and
security of each sale of TIF debt instrunents

and type of instrument sold;

3) the underwriters and trustees of each sale;

4) the amount of interest paid from tax increnent
during the prior calendar year (1998);

5) the anount of principal paid from tax increment
during the prior calendar year ( 1998)

(g) Description of city Contracts

Table G provides 2 description of City contracts
related to the Project Area, executed or in effect
during 1998 and paid with incremental tax revenues.
In addition, the date, names of all contracting
parties, purpose, amount of compensation, and
percentage of compensation paid is included in the
table. Table G does not apply to any contract or
contract expenditure reported under (e) (5) of
Section 4 of the Executive order.
City contracts related to the Project Area are
defined as those contracts paid from TIF funds, not
related to a specific TIF project, and not elsewhere
reported. Items include, but are not limited to,
payments for work done to acquire, dispose of, or
lease property within a Project Area, or payments

to appraisers, surveyors, consultants, marketing
agents, and other professionals. These services may
affect more than one project in a Project Area and
are not otherwise reported. Table G does not

report such noncontractual cost items as Recorder of
Deeds filing fees, postage, telephone service,

etc. City contracts include term agreements which are
city-wide, multi-year contracts that provide

goods or services for various City departments.

2

ue

y

Martin Luther King, Jr. Orive and art street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(n) Summary of Private and Public Investment activity

Table H describes each TIF project in the Project
Agea that has been executed through an
intergovernmental or redevelopment agreement in 1998,
or that has been approved by the

Community Development Conmission in 1998.

Yo the extent this information is available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development on a
completed project basis, the table provides a summary
of private investment activity, job creation,

and job retention within the Project Area and a
summary for each TIF project within the Project
Table H contains the final ratio of private/public
investment for each TIF project. The private
investment activity reported includes data from the
intergovernmental or redevelopment

agreement (s) and any additional data available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development.

oth..,£ private investment activity is estimated
based on the best information available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development.

(1) Description ofProperty Transactions

Information regarding property transactions is
Provided in Table 1 to the extent the City took or
divested title to real property or was a lessor or
lessee of real property within the Project Area.
Specifically, the Executive Order requires
descriptions of the following property transactions
occurring within the Project Area during 1998:

1) every property acquisition by the city through
expenditure of TIF funds, including the

location, type and size of property, name of the
transferor, date of transaction, the

compensation paid, and a statement whether the
property was acquired by purchase or by

eminent domain;

2) every property transfer by the City as part of the
redevelopment plan for the Project

Area, including the location, type and size of
property, name of the transferee, date of
transaction, and the compensation paid;

3) every lease of real property to the City if the
rental payments are to be made from TIF

funds. Information shall include the location, type
and size of property, name of lessor,

date oftransaction, duration of lease, purpose
ofrental, and the rental amount;
)

i

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

4) every lease of real property by the city to any
other person as part of the redevelopment

plan for the Project Area.

Information shall include the location, type and size
of

property, nane oflessor, date oftransaction, duration
of lease, purpose ofrental, and the

rental amount.

(3) Financial Summary Prepared by the city
comptroller

Section (4) provides a 1998 financial summary for the
Project Area audited by an independent

certified public accounting firm. These statenents
were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These statements
Anelude:

1) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at
the beginning ofthe prior calendar year;

2) cash receipts by source and transfers deposited
into the fund during the prior calendar

year;

3) transfer credits into the fund for the Project
Area during the prior calendar year;

4) expenditures and transfers from the fund, by
statutory category, for the Project Area

during the prior calendar year;

5) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at
the conclusion of the prior calendar year

(k) Description of Tax Receipts and Assessment
Table K provides the required statement of tax
receipts and assessment increments for the Project
Avea as outlined in the Executive Order

The amount of incremental property tax equals the
incremental EA V from the prior year multiplied by
the applicable property tax rates. Actual receipts
may vary due to delinquencies, sale of prior years’
taxes, and payment of delinquencies. see the
Financial report for actual receipts. Table K
provides the following information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales
tax inerenent and state sales tax

increment deposited in the fund during the prior
calendar year;

5

Fi

oe

minegth

fi 11

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and are street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

2) for a utility tax Project Area, the municipal
utility tax increment and the net state utility
tax increment anount deposited in the special
allocation fund during the prior calendar

year;

3) for a property tax Project Area, (A) the total
initial equalized assessed value of property
within the Project Area as of the date of designation
of the area, and (B) the total

equalized assessed value of property within the
Project Area as of the most recent

property tax year;

4) the dollar anount of property taxes on property
within the Project Area attributable to
the difference between items (3) (A) and (3) (8) above.

ALL terme used in Table K relating to increment.
amounts and equalized assessed value (EA V) are
construed as in Section 9 of the illinois Tax
Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act of the
U1linois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law.

Unless otherwise noted, the EAV and property tax
information were obtained from the Cook County
Clerk's Office. All sales tax information was
obtained from the City of Chicago.

(1) certain Contracts of TIP Consultants

Table L provides information about contracts, if any,
between the TIF consultant who was paid by

the City for assisting to establish the Project Area
and paid by any entity that has received or is
currently receiving payments financed by tax
increment revenues from the Project Area. The
contents of Table L are based on responses to a mail
survey. This survey was sent to every

consultant who has prepared at least one
redevelopment plan for the establishment of a
redevelopment project area within the City in 1998.
The Executive Order specifically applies to
contracts that the City's tax increment advisors or
consultants, if any, have entered into with any
entity that has received or is receiving payments
Financed by tax revenues produced by the sane
Project Area.

(m) Compliance statement Prepared by an Independent
Public Accountant

As part of the audit procedures performed by
independent accountants, certain compliance tests
performed related to the Project Area. Included in
the Annual Report is an audit opinion indicating
compliance or non-compliance with the Illinois Tax
Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act or the
U1linois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, a8
appropriate. Section (m) provides this statenent.
6
a

4

a
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(a) GENERAL DEscRIPTION

The Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 4lst street
Project Area is generally bounded by East 40th
Street on the north, South Vincennes A venue on the
east, East Bowen A venue on the south, and

South Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive on the west. The
map below illustrates the location and

general boundaries of the Project Area

For precise boundaries, please consult the legal
description in the Redevelopment Plan (Attachment).

a
BE. Bowwl AMia-e
E.agndshae
wee
ore

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

‘The Project Area was designated by the Chicago city
Council on July 13, 1994. The Project

Agea may be terminated no later than July 12, 207.
(c) coPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

‘The Redevelopment Plan for the Project Area, as
amended (if applicable), is contained in this,
Report (attachment)

(d) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND
REDEVELOPMENT

During 1998, no new agreements were executed in the
Project Area.

@

a
aun

sass

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(e) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT (S)

(OSOUPI10N OFTIFPROJECISAPPROVED BY TIE
COMMUNE: YOOVELOPMLINI’ ~ON\WRLEXPENIXEURES
DURING IME m.100. O\LLIN)AR. YEAR

01st Pposece

TOEALOLY

‘TOEALOLY

aupceleD

AMNSEANCE
PRIORYFAR TAXINCREMENT 11\X~"RI<:MENE
PROJE.<:T

ATLOCKIEDTO I'NIZMXIED UIANGESIN
EXI'FL'111119RF--S

EXPE .Nin1IRES

cost

VrLdemsuCT

TIMEEABLE

TINEEABLE

DURINGLSSS

*rODA1E

‘rypeorTie

DA'TEOF

auoLaNe

ue

colette

PROJECT

HNANONG HNANONG HNANONG
REGPIT<NE

PLIRL\W'E

OF PROJECT

$10, 820,096

$1,750,000 (1)

ayn

939,241

3133, 266
Ten-amllal ReMeue
10/2 rn

23)"

53,733,300
Iwigewue
cabuctirn ef 11(4.
(L)Limitedto emsinictirn 1001 i.tt=st
9

aps

bicll. \\itll sosce

unite set asid: fer

Sn:ple "ith incxay;

60%rr Jess than Lho

rnxlian

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and art street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(t) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS

During 1998, there were no TIF debt instruments
outstanding for the Project Area.

10

ust

Martin Luther King, Jr. Orive and 4fst street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY coNTRACTS

During 1998, there were no City contracts relating to
the Project Area,

aL
ay

Ft

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

During 1998, there was no information available
regarding public or private investment activity
in the Project Area

Fey

"1

ted

a

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and art street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(i) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS

During 1998, the City did not take or divest title to
real property within the Project Area.

Additionally, the City was not a lessor or lessee of
real property within the Project Area during

1998

a

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

“1

1998 annual Report

a
(3) FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY
COMPTROLLER

a4

CITY oF cHzcaco, ruLiNors

41ST AND MARTIN’ LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

FINANCIAL REPORT

DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997

CITY oF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

41ST AND MARTIN’ LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT

CONTENTS

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS,

REQUIRED AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Balance sheets

Statements of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance

Notes to financial statement

REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Year 2000 readiness disclosure
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Schedule of cash activities

Schedule of expenditures by statutory code
wet
BANS LEY AND KIENER. L. L. p_

CERTIFIED PuaLte AccouNTANTS

125 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE:

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60606-4496

ARE.A COOE 312 263-2700

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor

Members of the City Council

City of Chicago, I1linois

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of
the 4st and Martin

luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment Project of the
city of chicago,

T1linois, as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the
related statements of

revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance
for the years then ended

These financial statements are the responsibility of
the City of Chicago's

managenent.

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial

statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing
standards
Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to

obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free

of material misstatement

An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statement

An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and

significant estimates made by management, as well as
‘evaluating the overall

Financial statenent presentation.

fe believe that our audite provide a

reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly,

in all material respects, the financial position of
the 41st and Martin

luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment Project of the
City of chicago,

Illinois, as of December 31,

1998 and 1997,

and the results of ite

operations and changes in fund balance for the years
then ended in

conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements,
in 1998 the 4lst and

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment Project
of the City of Chicago,

Tlinois changed its method of accounting for

Fy
a

The year 2000 information on pages 7 and 8 is not a
required part of the

Financial statenents, but is supplementary
information required by the

Governmental Accounting Standards Board, and we did
not audit and do not

‘express an opinion on such information. Further, we
were unable to apply to

the information certain procedures prescribed by
professional standards

because of the unprecedented nature of the year 2000
issue and ite effects,

and the fact that authoritative measurement criteria
regarding the status of

remediation efforts have not been established.

In addition, we do not

provide assurance that the City of Chicago is or will
become year 2000

compliant, that the City of Chicago's year 2000
remediation efforts will be

successful in whole or in part, or that parties with
which the city of

Chicago does business are or will become year 2000
compliant

our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming
an opinion on the

financial statenents taken as a whole.

The schedule of cash activities on

page 9 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory
code on page 10, which

are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago's
managenent,

presented for purposes of additional analysis and are
not a required part of

the financial statements of 4lst and Martin Luther

King,
ge. Brive

Redevelopment Project of the City of chicago,

qlinots.
Such additional

information has been subjected to the auditing

procedures applied in the
audit of the financial statements and,
opinion, is fairly stated in

in our

all material respects when considered in relation to

the financial
statements taken as a whole.
gaol =~

certified Public Accountants
May 4, 1999

a

nH

fe

CITY oF cHzcaco, 1uLNors
41ST AND MARTIN’ LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE
PROJECT

ASSETS

Gash and investment
Property taxes receivable
BALANCE SHEETS

DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997
Accrued interest receivable
total assets
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
Due to other city funde
Deferred revenue

Total Liabilities

Fund balance

Total liabilities and fund balance
1998

1997

5 94,025

539253

97, 000

100, 000

4,152

276

$192,177

$139, 629

3

3

1,250

97, 000

100, 000

97, 000

201, 250

95,177

38,379

152,177

7139, 628

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
financial statements.
ra

ny

a

i

Op eae
of
roe
a

CITY oF cHzcaco, ruLiNors

41ST AND MARTIN’ LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT

Property tax

STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES
AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997
total revenues

Expenditures

capital projects

Revenues over expenditures

Fund balance, beginning of year

Fund balance, end of year

1998

1.299

594, 884

937, 972

1.155

388

36,039

27,960

39,241

1, 250

56,798

36,710

38,379

1, 669

595,177

“379

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
financial statements.

Fi

<a

i
pales
cat

a

CITY oF cHzcaco, 1uLNors

AIST AND MARTIN’ LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 ~

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Project

The lat and Martin Luther King, Je. Drive Tax
Redevelopment Project Area (Project) was established
in July 1994.

The area has been established to finance
improvements, leverage

private investment and create and retain jobs.
Reimbursements, if

any, are made to the developer for project costs, as
public

improvements are completed and pass City inspection .

Basis of Accounting
‘The Project is accounted for within the special
revenue funds

of the city.

‘The Financial statements are prepared on the modified
accrual

basis of accounting and current financial resources
focus with only current assets and liabilities
included on the
balance sheet,
Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual,
i.e. , both

measurable and available to finance expenditures of
the current

period

Available means collectible within the current period
s00n enough thereafter to be used to pay Liabilities
of the current

period

Expenditures are recorded when the liability is
incurred.

Fixed

funds but,

purchased

includes the

assets are not capitalized in the general operating
instead, are charged as current expenditures when
The General Fixed Asset Account Group of the City
capital assets, if any, of the Project.

Managenent's Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with

generally accepted accounting principles requires
managenent to

make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported anounts of

assete and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and

Liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the

reported anounte of revenues and expenses during the
reporting

period

Actual resulta could differ from those estimates.
Tilinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act
Compliance

The Project's expenditures include reimbursements for
eligible costa as described in subsection (a) of
Section 11-74.4-3

of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment
Allocation Act and the

Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the
Project.

Eligible costs include but are not limited te survey,
property

assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure,
Financing and

relocation costs,

crTY oF cHzcaco, ruLiNors
41ST AND MARTIN’ LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

Note 1 ~

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
(Continued)

cash and Investment

a

cash belonging to the City is generally deposited
with the

City Treasurer as required by the Municipal code of
chicago.

‘the

City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City
expenditures
hich represent a claim for payment when presented to
the city

Payment for all City warrants clearing is made by
checks drawn on the City's various operating bank
The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share
responsibility

for investing in authorized investments. Interest
‘earned on pooled

investments is allocated to participating funds based
upon their

average conbined cash and investment balances.

on January 1, 1998, the City adopted GASB statenent
No. 31,

“Accounting and Financial Reporting for Certain
Investments and for

External Investment Pools."

Accordingly, the city values its

investments’ at fair value, or amortized cost
Property Taxes

Property taxes are

receivable in the year

unless the taxes are

year-end.

Susceptible to accrual and recognized as a

levied

Revenue recognition is deferred

received within

60

cays

subsequent to

(as:-r.ranvNin)

NOI-L-OdNE Xav.uN3:W3:~ddps 93:~1003:~

Fy

as
YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE (UNAUDITED)
The City's operations, like those of many other
business entities, may be

impacted by the inability of certain computer
Prograns and electronic systems

with enbedded microprocessor chips to recognize
calendar dates beyond the

year 1999. Unless auch programs and microprocessors
are modified or replaced

Prior to the year 2000, they may not function
properly after 1999,

‘The City formed an executive committee in May 1998,
to oversee possible

City-wide year 2000 impacts.

‘The Department of Business and Information

Services has been charged with managing the city's
year 2000 project.

the

year 2000 issue is covered within the scope of the
City's year 2000 project

The year 2000 project is divided into stages as
follows:

Awareness Stage ~

Establishing a budget and project plan for dealing
with the year 2000 issue.

Assessment Stage ~ Identifying the mission critical
systems, equipment

and individual components for which year 2000
compliance is needed.
Remediation Stage - Making changes to systems and
equipment

Validation/testing Stage - Validating and testing the
changes that were

made during the renediation stage.

The City committed approximately $28.2 million and
$32.0 million in 1998 and

1999, respectively, for the repair and replacement of
year 2000 compromised

systens.

As of December 31, 1998, the city entered into
contracts for

approximately $17.7 million for the test plan
development, audit stages and

upgrade of certain software programs

Mission Critical Applications

The City has identified one computer application, the
Chicago Accounting and

Purchasing System, ae critical to conducting the
operations for year 2000

compliance.

As of December 31, 1998, the City completed the
awareness and

assessment stages, and the remediation stage was in
process for the above

mission critical component. This mission critical
component is still subject

to the validation/testing stage.

The City-wide completion of all stages is

scheduled for September 1999,

Embedded systems

The awareness stage, including an inventory of
‘embedded systems has been

completed.

Baseline assessment of mission critical functions
involving

embedded systems was substantially completed by the
end of the first quarter

of 1999,

The City has retained outside consultants to manage
and implenent
completion of this aspect of the year 2000 project by
the end of September

1999)

Ene

on

i

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE (UNAUDITED)
(Continued)

Other Considerations

aa

‘The City also initiated an assessment of mission
critical vendors, which is

being performed by 2 consultant with oversight from
the executive committee

to plan for continuity in the city's supply chain.
Contingency planning for

mission critical systems and other elements of the
year 2000 project is

Scheduled to Be completed by the end of September
1999)

The above description of the stages of work to
address the year 2000 issues

is not a guarantee those systems will be year 2000
compliant

Although the

City is currently on schedule to mest its objectives
for year 2000

compliance, there is no assurance that compliance
will be achieved in a

timely manner.

Further, if the City successfully addresses its year
2000

issues, there ie no assurance that any other entity
or governmental agency
(including governmental organizations or entities
that provide essential

infrastructure) with which the City electronically
interacts will be year

2000 compliant

At this time, the City can not determine the
potential

impact of such noncompliance on the business and
financial condition of the

results of its operations.

NoI~-OdN2 xLiV~3-dai1s

£

‘5

SCHEDULE OF CASH ACTIVITIES

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997
cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received

Payments for capital projects

Interest received

Increase in cash and investments

cash and investments, beginning of year
cash and investments, end of year
Reconciliation of revenues over
expenditures to net cash provided by
operating activities
1998
5 94,884

(40, 491)

279

34,772

39,252

= 54,025

a

1997

5 38,018

2

38, 030

1323

er

Revenues over expenditures
Adjustments to reconcile revenues over
expenditures to net cash provided by
5 56,798

3 36,710

operating activities

Changes in assets ~

(increase)

Property tax receivable

Accrued interest receivable
Changes in liabilities - increase
Due to other city funde

Deferred revenue

3,000

(776)

(2,250)

(3,000)

~lan,

(98, 318)

(37%)

1,250

98, 764

~ Seao
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES BY STATUTORY CODE
Code Description

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
specifications, implenentation and administration

of the redevelopment plan including but not

Limited to staff and professional service costs

for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing
costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction or repair or
renodeling of existing public or private buildings
and fixtures

3

Sho

1998

1997

31,250

39,241

939,241

L250
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and art street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OFT AX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT
INCREMENTS

DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

STATE
SALES TAX
SALES TAX
YEAR INCREMENT
INCREMENT
INCREMENT
INCREMENT
1998

Nea. (1)
NAL (DD
Neal (LD
Nal (LD
(2) W VA. ~ not applicable.
a5

5114, 305
INCREMENTAL
ra
PROPERTY
TAKES1~7
$1,210, 506
$96,937
Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(2) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIE CONSULTANTS

During 1998, no TIF consultant waa paid by the city
for assisting to establish the Project Area

and paid by any entity that has received or is
currently receiving payments financed by tax
revenues from the Project Area.

16

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and 41st street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT
PuaLic

at

ACCOUNTANT

)
Bansley and Kiener, L.L.?.
certified Public Accountants

‘Estavislivt 1922

125 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60606-4496
312/263-2700 FAX 312/263-6935

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor

Members of the City Council

City of Chicago, I1linois

BERNARD J SULLIVAN C PA

RICHARD J QUINN CPA

"RANK S GADZALA CP A

THOMAS A TYLER C PA

JOHN W SANEW ig! CPA

VHOMAS A GERWIN CP A

STEPHEN R PANFIL CP A,

MICHAEL D HUELS C PA

THOMAS J CAPUCE CP A

GERARD J PATER CPA

VINCENT M GUZALDO. CPA

We have audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards,

the balance sheet of 41st and Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive Redevelopment
Project of the City of Chicago, I1linois as of
December 31, 1998, and the

related statement of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance

for the year then ended, and have issued our report
thereon dated May 4,

1999)

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our
attention that caused us

to believe that

the

Project failed to

comply with the

regulatory

provisions in Subsection (q)

of Section 11-74.4-3 of the ZLlinois Tax

Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection

(0
of Section

11-74.6-10 of the 1linois Industrial Jobs Recovery
law as they relate to

the eligibility for costs incurred incidental to the
implementation of the

41st and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive Redevelopment
Project of the city

of Chicago, Illinois.

This report is intended for the information of the
city of Chicago's

management.

However, this report is a matter of public record,
and ite

distribution is not limited.

May 4, 1999

AVERICAN INSTITUTE OF CPAS

ILLINOIS CPA SOCIETY

MOORE STEPHENS NORTH AMERICA INC

weebenE

certified Public Accountants
13
1)
tee

}

Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive and are street
Redevelopment Project Area

1998 annual Report

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

a8

veeie

o£

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DRIVE AND FORTY-FIRST STREET
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT

itty
Dips
age,
a3

=f

in

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND ELIGIBILITY stupy
Table of Contenta

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND

The Grand Boulevard Community ©. 2...
The Redevelopment Project Area ("RPA")
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT AREA GOALS AND
Redevelopment

Plan

and

Project

Objectives

General Land use
é
Redevelopment Program . Le
QUALIFICATION

BLIGHTED AREA

Blighted

Blighted

OF THE RPA UNDER THE ACT AS A
improved area

a4
ESTIVATED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COST .

16

SOURCE OF FUNDS TO PAY REDEVELOPMENT costs
as

ASSESSMENT OF ANY

FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE

REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA ON OTHER TAXING
22
23

MOST RECENT EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION OF
PROPERTIES

REDEVELOPMENT

PROJECT

26

ANTICIPATED EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION
26

COMMITMENT TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND
27

SCHEDULING OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

29

PROVISTONS

INCRENENT

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT...

20

pega
d
Exhibits
Exhibit
Exhibit
Exhibit
Exhibit
Map 1
Map 2
Map 3
Table 1
table 2
LISTS OF EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES
Legal Description

criteria for qualification

Eligibility Report

Eligible Projected Redevelopment Costs
Boundary Map

Existing Land Use Map

Proposed Land Use Map

Blighting Factors for Improved Parcels and
Blighting Factors for Vacant Parcels

Most recent equalized assessed valuation
of parcels in the RPA.

ab

Ft

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND:
The Grand Boulevard community
‘The proposed Redevelopment Project Area, and the
proposed Project are located in the City of Chicago
community

38

commonly

called

Grand

Boulevard. 1

Grand Boulevard is bounded by Pershing

Road on the north, Slat Street on the South, Cottage
Grove on the east, and Rock island Railroad tracks
on the west

‘The Grand Boulevard area is one of the

poorest

communities

in Chicago.

1989,

accordance with the Census data compiled by the city
of Chicago, the Grand Boulevard area had a family
median income of $7,671 (down from $11,640 in 1979)
compared to the family median income for the city of
$30,707 (400% lower) -

Of the city's seventy-seven

conmunity areas, the Grand Boulevard community had
the fourth highest rate of tax delinquent properties
(25.51%) in 1987

The rate for the City was 3.81%

‘The Grand Boulevard community experienced a

238

1 The City of chicago has seventy-seven official
Community Area designations.

Each Community Area has a

name, e.g-, Lincoln Park, Grand Boulevard, ete., and
each

Community Area is divided into census tracts
ci

decline in population from
1980 to 1990.

me

population went from 53,741 to 35,897.

During the last decade (from 1980 to 1989), the area
lost 3.38 of its 20,852 dwelling units., Of its
2,853 buildings, approximately 61.08 were in need of
major repair by 1988, compared to the whole City at
7.088,

and

of

the total buildings,

4.28

abandoned compared to the rest of the City at 0.8%.
Another staggering statistic is the percentage of
vacant lots in the area:

35.648 compared to 10.06%

for

the

city

These

characteristics

of

the

Community Area

(Grand Boulevard)

prevalent in the proposed Redevelopment Project Area
and will be presented and documented throughout this
Redevelopment Plan and Project (the "Plan*) and the
Eligibility Report
‘There were 1,007 new dwelling units built in Grand
Boulevard from 1980 to 1989.

of the total during

this period, approximately 37.4% (377 units) were
developed by Peoples Consumer co-operative, the
sponsor

of

the

Proposed

Project,

utilizing

government asa is ted financing.

‘These unite were

2

on

i

developed as the third and fourth phases of the Paul
G. Stewart Apartments

(The first four phases of

the Paul G. Stewart Apartments are shown on Map 1,
which is attached to and made

part of this

Redevelopment Plan and Project.

the firet two

phases were developed during the period 1971 to 1979
and consisted of 420 units.

‘These units were also

developed and built through the use of government
assisted

prograns

Together

che

four
phases
comprise 707 units of housing for the elderly and 90
family units.

The City played a major role in the fourth phase
development by assisting in acquiring the land
through the former

Department of Urban Renewal

(rou).

of

the

parcels

within

the

Redevelopment Project Area is currently under the
sane Redevelopment Agreement with OUR which governed
Phase Four.

‘The success of the earlier phases of

the Paul G. Stewart Apartments was based on the
availability of government assisted financing.

the

governnent programa which were used to develop the
First four phases are no longer available to assist
in developing affordable housing.

Therefore, the

2

ff

of
important

resource in helping to meet the goals of developing
affordable housing for very low, low, and moderate
income persons

The Redevelopment Project Area ("RPA")

me

proposed

approximately

an

excluding street areas. Including street areas, the
RPA is approximately 7 acres.

The proposed tax

increment RPA boundaries:

run from the center of the intersection of East
40th Street and South Vincennes Avenue southward
to the center of the intersection of south
Vincennes Avenue and East Bowen Avenue, west to
the center of East Bowen Avenue and South Martin
luther King Drive, north to the center of the
intersection of South Martin Luther King Drive
and East dist street, east to the center of the
alley located approximately 175 *

from Martin

luther King Drive, south approximately 120" to
the center of the alley mid-block between East
alse

street

and

approximately 100’ to the boundary of 429 and
431 East 41st street, north between the parcels
to the center of East {lst street, east to the
boundary of 460 and 462 East 4st street, north

to the center of the alley mid-block between

East 40th street and East (lat Street, east
approximately 257 to the eastern boundary of 65
East 40th street,

north along the eastern

boundary of 465 East 40th Street to the center

of East 40th Street, and then east to the center

of the intersection of East 40th Street and

South Vincennes avenue.

a

Hit

hug

Map 1 shows the boundaries of the APA and also shows
the location of the RPA in respect to Phases I-IV of
che

Paul

s.

Stewart

apartments.

the

egal

description of the RPA is also attached and made
part hereof as Exhibit a.

ALl of the land use in the RPA is residential, as
shown in the Existing Land Use Map, Map 2, which is
attached to and made a part of this Plan and would
permit multi-family and single family housing units.
Approximately 90% of the land in the RPA is vacant.
The buildings which remain are either dilapidated
and

abandoned
need
of

substantial

rehabilitation.

The RPA on the whole has not been

subject to growth and development through investment
by private enterprise and would not reasonably be
anticipated to be developed without the adoption of
the redevelopment plan.

The City will encourage redevelopment projects in
che

in order

increase the

number

of

affordable housing unite

The modest number of

newly constructed multi-family housing units which
has occurred near the RPA haa been accomplished

utilizing federal deep subsidy programs
In the

absence of these dollars, or other subsidies in
their stead, it is not possible to develop housing
to meet affordable housing needs of the neighbor-
hood market

Investment solely through, private

enterprise can only create housing at a price too
high to meet the need for affordable housing in the
If 2 redevelopment plan is not adopted which
addresses the characteristic market needs of the
RPA, and which provides a practical, sound method
for financing the proposed redevelopment project, as
well as other redevelopment projects, it is probable
the land which is vacant will remain vacant into the
unforeseeable future and the remaining structures
will probably continue to deteriorate and eventually
will need to be razed

Thus, more vacant land will

be cfeated and the tax base will continue to erode.
This Plan has been prepared to address the needs of
the city in meeting its redevelopment goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan of Chicago,
dated

Decenber,

1966

and

also

the

goals

and

objectives

of

comprehensive

Housing

Affordability Strategy ("CHAS") prepared by the City
of Chicago Department of Housing as they relate to

”

the RPA using tax increment financing ( "TIF*) to
meet these goals and objectives. 2 It should be noted
that paragraph 1266,
see.

16

of the "Illinois

Affordable Housing Act" provides for *

the use of

tax increment financing to increase the availability
of affordable housing."

Tax inerenent financing is

provided

for

by

the

Allocation

Redevelopment Act, as amended (the "Act")

The development of additional housing in the RPA,
through the use of tax increment financing will act
stimulus

and

catalyst to attract and

encourage other development .

As the Project and

other development activity take place, in time,
blighted conditions will be eliminated,

In the

final

analysis

the

implementation

of

the

Redevelopment Plan and Project will have positive,
long term benefits to the City of Chicago and all of
the taxing districts which are included in the RPA.
2 the City of Chicago is required to submit to the
Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD")
pursuant

to Section 10S of the cranston-Gonzalez National
Affordable

Housing Act of 1991, a Comprehensive Housing
Affordability

strategy.

Initially, the city was required to prepare a

Hive year’ plan.

‘Thereafter, the city must submit annual

updates of its housing strategy.

7

a
cng

‘The real estate tax base will be expanded; excess
wil

be

generated;

and

jobs

‘from

construction and ongoing property management will be
available.

REDEVELOPMENT

PROJECT

oats
The goals and objectives which follow for the RPA
are in accordance with the objectives of the Tax
Redevelopment Allocation Act (the "Act*) and the
city’s

CHAS

Redevelopment Plan and Project Objectives

‘The City seeks to achieve the following objectives
by encouraging the development and redevelopment of
through various public financing techniques
including,

but

Limited

Financing:

a

Eliminating slum and blighted conditions.

@

2
Providing affordable housing unite for very
ow income, low income, and moderate income
families.

2

Providing for stability of the, RPA

by

entertaining
development
proposals

for

residential redevelopments,

a

Preserving the architectural and historical
characteristics

of

the

surrounding

neighborhood,

5

Enhancing the tax base of the affected
taxing districts,

6

Attracting

both

public

and

private

investment in the RPA.

7

Providing

opportunities

for

and

minority

businesses

share

the

redevelopment of the area.

Encouraging development and redevelopment in
an Enterprise Zone area

°
contributing to the health, welfare,
and

safety of the city

10. Improving the infrastructure of the RPA
General Land Use

The existing land consists of approximately 4. 7
acres of land zoned for residential use, including
the land which fronte on br. King Drive.

imap 2.)

Map 3 attached hereto and made part of the Plan
designates the intended land use in the RPA as
residential, single and multi-family.

me

conforms to the strategic economic development plans
oF redevelopment plans issued by the designated
planning authority of the City and includes land
uses that have been approved by the plan commission
of the city.

ALL the parcels in the RPA will be

benefited by the Plan and Project.

10
Redevelopment Program

In order to achieve the foregoing objectives in the
RPA, the City will pursue a coordinated program of
and

facilitate

residential

development

The City will seek and encourage the
rehabilitation of existing structures, if feasible,
and

construction

for

both

single

family

dwellings

and

multi-family

wellings

by

all

qualified developers.

THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT C the "Proi act")

The Project will be the development of housing in
the RPA and infrastructure related thereto.

the

housing will include multifamily developments and
may

include single family

townhouses.

contemplated that the first structure to be built is
to be a 13 story highrise building of reinforced
concrete with an exterior brick finish.

qt will
contain approximately 96 dwelling units
This Project in the RPA will aid in revitalizing an
important area of the City.

Located in the Grand

a

me

eieap

i

4305

Boulevard community, the RPA is very convenient to
downtown Chicago, approximately 4 miles north, and
to the lakefront, approximately 1.5 miles east

me

site has excellent access to public transportation.
Buses on King Drive and the elevated train at 43rd
Street and Prairie run on a 24 hour schedule.

ALL of the property in the RPA is expected to be
developed or redeveloped in the next ten years.
Since there is so much vacant property in the RPA,
it is likely that a variety of styles and types of
occupancy will take place, including oxner-occupied
single-family housing as well as renter-occupied
townhouses and garden apartments.

The few existing

on owner occupied buildings which remain in the RPA
will probably be razed and redeveloped, because they
have deteriorated past the point of being feasible
to rehabilitate.

Those buildings which are owner

occupied are more likely to be remodeled.

me

city

wil

encourage
che
development

and

redevelopnent

of

the

land

provided

that

each

Proposal conforms to the current zoning ordinance
2

gut

on

Be

(as anended and revised from time to time) and is
consistent with other City ordinances and plans.
Each phase of the Project will generate construction
jobs and material suppliers.

Although con~truction

jobs generated within the RPA are not permanent, the
ripple

effects

of

contruction

jobs

well
documented.
Permanent jobs that will be generated

include such

jobs as service jobs in property

anagenent, property maintenance, and marketing.
Development activity in the proposed

could

stimulate private development activity outside of
the RPA.

QUALIFICATION OP THE RPA UNDER THE ACT AS A BLIGHTED
Findings

conditions

Redevelopment Project Area

Existing

che

The Act provides that an area may be designated as
a redevelopment project area, if it qualifies as a
"blighted area.

Pry

aa

fn

n
1

After studying the conditions which exist within the
it is determined that the

meets the

criteria to quality both the vacant and improved
parcels as blighted area as defined in the act
me
whole RPA therefore qualifies as a blighteq area
Blighted vacant area

me

parcels

the

criteria

for

"blighted" as defined in the Act based on the
following factors specified by the Act which are
Present which impair the growth of property
values: obsolete platting of the vacant land;
diversity

of

ownership

of

che

land,

deterioration of structure and site improvements
in neighboring areas adjacent to the vacant
land

only two of these factors are required to

be present to qualify the vacant parcels as
being blighted under the Act.

Three factors are

present.

Map 2 of the eligibility report, which

is also Map 2 of this Plan, shows the location
of vacant land and improvements in the RPA.
described in detail in the Eligibility Report,
there are at least eight different owners of
vacant land in the RPA.

Ag illustrated on Map

a4
a
2, the parcels are not of such a size as to
acconmodate proposed projects

Blighted improved area.

The improved properties meet the criteria of the
Act as blighted improved area.

The improved

properties meet the blighted area criteria as
defined in the Act based on the following
factors:

age;

depreciation

of

physical

maintenance;

deterioration;

dilapidation;

obsolescence;

presence

of

below

minimum code standards; excessive vacancies;
lack of conmunity planning, all of which are
detrimental to the public safety, health, morals
or welfare.

Five of these factors need be

present to qualify the area as a blighted area,
but at least eight eligibility factors are
present.

A description of the criteria for

blighting factors pertaining to improvements is
set forth in Exhibit @ which is attached to and

made a part of this Plan.
A detailed analysis of the blighted conditions
causing qualification is set forth

in the

a5

\

Eligibility Report which is attached as Exhibit
<,

Table 1 of the Eligibility Report which
indicates

the

comprehensive

of

che

existence of these factors is also attached to
thie Plan.

ESTIMATED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT cost

Pursuant to the Act, redevelopment project costs
mean and include the sum total of all reasonable or
necessary

incurred

estimated

be

incurred, and any such costs incidental to this
Redevelopment Plan and Project.

Eligible costs may

include:

a
costs of studies, surveys, development of
plans and specifications, implementation and
administration of the redevelopment plan
including but not limited to staff and
professional

service

for

architectural,

engineering,

legal,

marketing,

financial,

planning or other

services, provided however that no charges
for professional services may be based on a-
percentage of the tax increment collected;

2

Property assembly costs, including but not
Limited to acquisition of land and other
property, real or personal, or rights or
interests therein, demolition of buildings,
and the clearing and grading of land;

16

wet
a

costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction or
repair or remodeling of existing public or
private buildings and fixtures;

a

costs of the construction of public works or
improvements;
s
costs

of

projects;

job

training

and

retraining

6

Financing costs, including but not limited
to all necessary and incidental expenses
related to the issuance of obligations and
which may include payment of interest on any
obligations issued hereunder accruing during
the estimated period of construction of any
redevelopnent

project

for

which

such

obligations are issued and for not exceeding
26

months

thereafter

and

including

reasonable reserves related thereto;

7

ALL or a portion of a taxing district's
capital

resulting

from

the

redevelopment project necessarily incurred
of to be incurred in furtherance of the
objectives of the redevelopment plan and
Project, to the extent the municipality by
written’ agreement accepts and approves such
8
Relocation

costs to the extent that

municipality

determines

chat

relocation

costs shall be paid or is required to make
payment of relocation coats by federal or
State law,

8

Payment in Lieu of taxes;

10. Costs of job training, advanced vocational
education or career education, including but
not Limited to courses in occupational,
semi-technical or technical fields leading
directly to employment, incurred by one or
more taxing districts, provided that such
costs (1) are related to the establishment
and maintenance of additional job training,
advanced

vocational

education or career

uv

Bs

a.
‘education programs for persons employed or
to be employed by employers located in a
redevelopment project area; and ( ii) when
incurred by a

taxing district or taxing
districts other than the municipality, are
set forth ina written agreement by of anong
the municipality and the taxing district or
taxing districts, which agreement describes
the progran to be undertaken, including but
not limited to the nunber of employees to be
trained, a description of the training and
services to be provided, the nunber and type
of positions available or to be available,
itemized costs of the program and sources of
funds to pay for the same, and the t.erm of
the

agreenent

Such

include,

specifically,

the

payment

by

community

college districts of costs pursuant to
Sections 3-37, 3-38, 3-40 and 3-40.1 of the
Public Conmunity College Act and by school
districts of costs pursuant to Sections 10-
22.20a and 10-23.3a of The School Code;
related to the

rehabilitation

provided that:

incurred by a

redeveloper

construction, renovation or

of a redevelopment project

(a) such costs are to be paid directly from
che

special

allocation

fund
established pursuant to this Act; and
(®) such paymente in any one year may not
exceed 20% of the annual interest costs
incurred by the redeveloper with regard
to the redevelopment project during that
year;

(c) if there

sufficient

funda

available in the special tax allocation
fund to make the payment pursuant to

this paragraph 11 then the amounts so
ue shall acerue and be payable when
suffictent funds are available in the
special tax allocation fund; and

a8

(q) the total of such interest payments paid
pursuant to this Act may not exceed 308

of the total (4) cost paid or incurred

by the redeveloper for the redevelopment

project plus (11) redevelopment project

costs excluding any property assembly

costs and any relocation costs incurred

by a municipality pursuant to this Act

Estimated eligible Redeveloped Project costs for the
area are shown on Exhibit D which is attached to and
made a part of the Plan

To the extent that Project

costs
have
been

incurred

prior

but

anticipation of

the

adoption

of tax

#inancing,

and

thereafter

after

Financing has been adopted, those eligible costs may
be reimbursed.

Reasonable adjustments in the cost

iteme listed from time to time may be made in the
Projections without amendment to the Redevelopment
Plan.

Funds may be moved from one line item to

another or to an eligible cost category described in
this Plan and may be adjusted upward by the annual
rate of inflation.

SOURCE OP FUNDS TO PAY REDEVELOPMENT costs

The source of Funds to pay redevelopment costs is
the real estate tax increment generated by the

as

a

i
=a

increase in assessed value of properties included in
the RPA.

It is contemplated that most of the Tax

Increment Revenue will be applied to the interest
subsidy.

The interest subsidy will be applied

toward the annual debt service on the mor~gage of
the first multifamily structure to be built.
Increment Revenue may be available to cover other
eligible costs in the RPA and/or distributed to the
taxing districts.

Except as the City's commitment

to pay the interest subsidy from Tax Increment
Revenue to the extent that it is available may be
termed

obligation of

the

city,

anticipated that the City will issue obligations to
fund

the

development

of the firet multifamily

The City may, however, determine it ts

desirable to’ issue revenue or general obligations
secured by the tax increment special tax allocation
fund established for the RPA pursuant to Section 11-
74.4-7 of the Act of such other funds or security as
are available to the City by virtue of its powers
under the Act and as provided by the Constitution of
the State of 11linoie.

20
my
all obligations issued by the City pursuant to this
Redevelopment Plan and Project and the Act shall be
retired not more than twenty-three (23) years from
the date of adoption of the ordinance approving the
the final maturity date of any

obligations issued pursuant to the Act may not be
later than twenty (2 0) years from its respective
date of issuance.

one of more series of obligations

may

be

issued

‘from

time to time

in order to

implement this Redevelopment Plan and Project.

ALL

obligations are to be covered after issuance by
Projected and actual tax increment,

other tax

revenue and

by such debt service revenues and

sinking funds as may be provided by ordinance.

me

total principal and interest payable in any year on
all obligations
shall
exceed

the

available in that year, or projected to be available
in that year, from tax’ increment revenues and from
bond

sinking

funds,

capitalized interest,

debt

service reserve funds and all other sources of funds
as may be provided by ordinance.

‘those

required for principal

and

interest payments, required reserves, bond sinking
a

a

,
funds,

redevelopment project costs and reserves
required to fund such costs, early retirement of
outstanding

securities,

and

facilitate
che
economical issuance of additional bonds necessary to
accomplish the redevelopment plan, may be ~eclared
surplus

and

shall

then

become

available

for

distribution

annually

taxing

districts

overlapping the RPA in the manner provided by the
Such securities may be issued on either a taxable or
tax-exempt basis, with either fixed interest rates
floating

with

without

capitalized interest;

with

or without deferred

principal retirement; with or without interest rate
Limite, and with or without redemption provisions
The continued existence of vacant properties which
characterizes most of the RPA, as well as the lack
of rehabilitation of existing structures is evidence
indicating that the RPA as a whole has not been
subject to growth and development through investment
by private enterprise

Most of the parcels in the

22
RPA have been vacant for more than ten years
for" the TIF no projects would be feasible in the
the creation of the TIF district will enable
redevelopment to occur in an economically depressed
area where otherwise the development of affordable,
ew construction housing would be infeasible .
ASSESSMEN'I*

FINANCIAL

REDEVELOPMENT

PROJECT

AXING

Based on the established "but for" of the RPA and
the projects which will follow, the redeveloped area
will be positively impacted.

There will be littie,

Af any, short term, financial impact on most of the
taxing districts:

The districts could benefit from

the distribution of excess revenue granted by the
district after eligible costs are covered:
ALL of

the taxing districts will benefit from the long-
term financial impact of the TIF.

At the end of the

TIF term of 23 years, all of the projects in the TIF
district are to pay full real estate taxes.

the

following is an assessnent of the financial impact
on the various taxing districts:

23

pont

1

cook County and Cook County Health Facilities:
‘There will be no or Little financial impact
Health services to the projected population of
the RPA will not result ina net increase in
health services provided by County facilities.
2

Chicago Park District:

There will be no oF

Little finanesal impact

3

Forest Preserve District of Cook County:
there

will be no financial impact.

a

Metropolitan

Reclamation

District
of
Greater Chicag:
There will be no or little
financial impact

Sewer Lines are available to

service the RPA.

5

Community College District 508:

There will be

no of Little financial impact

The projected

population of the RPA will not result in a net
increase in the Chicago City Colleges.

to the

extent that there are students from the RPA the
Ampact would be the sane if they lived outeide
of the RPA.

24

6

City of chicago.

There will be no negative

financial impact and no expected increase in
demand for city Services

Vacant and abandoned

properties provide opportunities for ~criminal
activity

such

rug

sales

and
Redevelopment in the RPA will help reduce the
demand for city Police and Fire Services in the
As projects are developed in the RPA, the
requirement for City Services should be typical
of other normal developed neighborhoods

me

RPA will have a positive impact on the city's
‘economic

development

and

availability

of

affordable housing

8

Board of Education: There will be some financial
impact

There will be an increase in demand for

school services as a result of children of
tenants who reside in the projects in the RPA.
Because of a dramatic drop in population in the
Grand Boulevard Conmunity, schools which serve
the RPA have excess capacity,

25,

a

ayes

hee

peek

dete

ne
,
Gerais)
“
20 new building facilities will not be required. 3
Since there will be no financial impact on the taxing

districts, it would
be

premature to establish

Prograns

address

such

financial

impact

increased demand for services at this tine.

RECENT

EQUALIZED

ASSESSED

VALUATION

PROPERTIES IN THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

It ig estimated that the most recent equalized

+ assessed valuation for the RPA is approximately
5111, 634

See Table 2 attached.

ANTICIPATED EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION

It is estimated that the Projected equalized assessed

valuation of real property within the RPA will be
approximately $2,100,000 for land and improvenents
result of the development

of

the first

multifamily structure, After full development of the
2 The schools which serve the RPA are King High
School

and Fuller Elementary school.

According to officials at
said schools, both schools are currently operating
below

maximum capacity.

26

a

RPA it is anticipated that the projected equalized
assessed valuation of real property in the RPA will
be $5,000,000.

cOMKITMEEL,

As part of any Redevelopment Agreement entered into
by the City and any private developers, both will
agree to establish and implement a goal-oriented
affirmative action program that serves appropriate
sectors of the city

With respect to the public/private development's
internal operations,

both entities will pursue

‘employment practices which provide equal opportunity
to all people regardless of sex, color, race, creed,
age, national origin, marital status of the presence
of

physical

handicaps
Neither
party

wil

countenance discrimination against any employee or

applicant because of sex, color, race, creed, age,

Rational origin, marital status, or the presence of
physical

handicaps

These

nondiscriminatory

practices will apply to all areas of employment,

27

1

including:
hiring,

upgrading

and

promotions,

terminations,

compensation,

benefit programs

and

‘education opportunities.

ALl those involved with employment activities will
be responsible for conformance with this policy and
compliance with the requirements of applicable state
and federal regulations

‘The City and private developers will adopt a policy
of equal employment opportunity and will include or
require the inclusion of this statement in all

and
subcontracts
any

level.

Additionally, any public/private entities will seek
to ensure and maintain a working environment free of
harassment, intimidation, and coercion at all sites,
and in all facilities at which all employees are
assigned to work.

It shall be specifically ensured

that all on-site supervisory personnel are aware of
and carry out the obligation to maintain such working

environnent, with specific attention to minority
andjor fenale individuals.
28

=)

Finally, the entities will utilize affirmative action

to ensure that business opportunities are provided
and that job applicants are employed and treated in

a nondiseriminatory manner.

Underlying this policy

is the recognition by the entities that su-cessful
affirmative action programs are important to the
continued growth and vitality of the community,
SCHEDULING OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

completion of Redevelopment Project and Retirement

of Obligations to Finance Redevelopment Costs

‘This Redevelopment Plan and Project will be completed
on or before a date twenty-three (23) years from the
adoption of an ordinance designating the RPA.

the

city thus expects that the Redevelopment Project will

be completed sooner than the maximum time limit set
by

the

actual

public

and/or

private

conatruction

activities

anticipated

be

completed within ten (10) years from the adoption of
this Redevelopment Plan and Project.

The city may

issue bonds to fund redevelopment project costs.

25

PROVISTONS

AMENDING

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT
INCRENENT
‘This Redevelopment Plan and Project may be amended
pursuant to the provisions of the Act.

(so024ciay

20

Legal peseriptiop

TAX IBCREMEHT FINANCING DISTRICT

LICAT PAIT OF M VEST 1iz OF ne IDTHEAST 1/4 oF
SECTICIT 1, TeMesHIP 31

IDTK. WILLE 14,

ami ane PIDCIML rULiDIM,
aragtepeD

Min

OESCLiim AS

Fel. .u125
preceeiectarca

TinteRs (CTIQIZ Of net WESTERLY
EXTEMSICII OF THE cootR Ulé OF £. 00 AtLILI1E, re"19C
A LDIt 40,00 FEET.

IDSURM AT ITGHT MLAJES, sat €6 NEL PMAUIL, VEL"H
Ase samt LITIE OF

Aloc z 111 mist s. 1010'S surpinsicéé 01 NE LU2RIM
A/s of 1116 Dim 1/8

Of ime sDSTIT6r 1/4 Of aE dliosT 1/4 cF MID E1101 3,
acretiiuzis 70

LICE PLAT IMEI£OF LEcCIDETE .wy 25, 1173 AS oocruizT
11815, weTM ot:

SE:TULKEII.Y OODISICIT Of A LITE 21.00 FI[L", AS
41051111 aT iigrii" Neus,
Vest OF Ml) PAIAU.EL WITH! L11¢ VEST UJE OF a.Grx Z 11
SAID CEDKE S.

1018's SUIDIYISICrII; 1iterrel anaL\* AUIIC SAID LAST
DEDLLED HI.W.£1.

LUIE ALLi SAID PAAAU.ET. ULE EXL"EJJTED 10 M INTEIS
Et41CII wR .tHE WEST'ELL.Y

EXTDISICIE

cre

111e ono Litle ££ £, 41ST Stim'e, IELIC A UIE 13.00
Ag IDSIRE!) AT RISHT MCUS, J111nt Of- NUU.£1. L1EL11
aig ani 1.DIE 01

BL.ocl Z Ji SAID ;a:M[ S. ..U'S sgrDeTrsicrz: Lyreia
WItii.y AT..GI5 SAID

Ceoml LLLE of £.

41st maT 19

IWILLSECTICIT m'N THE

EXTERSTOIC orn£ Chm:1 LITE Of 148 oni-srirTM ~
ALU'E Lalli WD at.

AIIJ 1D.JOIIIIIIIL LOTS I To 10, 19G.11SsWt, 11 aace
z 11 salp

gecise s

1010" surpryzsior:

‘Tiiggr:£ SIU'ta.Y a.CIS SAID LAST DOCIIJED CEXTEL
LINE 10 AI LintRSetTICIT VILL 1HE TESTESTLT
EXI'EJISU* GP INE cant] UIE Of

Ait EYASL-WST PUIT.IC

M.LEY LnS sami GF- ADJDITIIS LOTS 11 To 14,
Ul:l.ustve, 1 1Locl 2 vl wo 1Ds( Ss. ...,5
sr.uvisicr!; THEJa

W'TDLY ALS SAID LAST DESCIIIID COTO LUTE 19M
DIEStSELSLerI vaTM 111

SCLITIEIT. \* Eil*tgISicir GF 111¢ east ust CF UIT
14 Tr acl 2 111 SAJIE RaBE

s

Timsf's morvistcrt; 11reKe anlla-Y au.,_ WT UIE OF
S1iD Lot

14 All)... SAID UST LIUT[ QYOrIIJ) 1 M 1ijosB:JJa1
mi 111£ Cem
41st STICET, AFCIRESALD; 11Gia FASTBLT mJTS MID Cegml
of

AIst MEET TO M IrTUJeSitUGIT tall1 IME su’ THESTI.Y
prpistor: oF ame

Vest UIE OF LOT 11 If 11.018 1D lleLiy's arrpeTurr
10 Mreiie ,_, Teri A

su.1iTISiCIT I1111e DLIeAST 1/4 GF settee 1, ARADALD,
ataibl. to lift

TLIEJCEGE TBailii:D (CTOIEL ++ ~

4S pbaiDT Im. c2u2!; 11zeite

IUsIRINERLY ALCIIC 111£ war LIJE GF SAID LOT 11 a
ALIS SAID 1sT ULE

70 All IelpsEctzor mi 111 ~

LIRE tl 1Me WT 4EST MUC

ALLEY L Y11Li Lilml oF

ADJOLIL11i SAID Lc1 $1; IMEII:1 WI'BLY AUIS SAID
LAST DUAUIED COOEL LIIIE TD If Lllastt:Ue 11°1112118
#iG IMe ETEILT UITE tL LOT 2 L114 sunmeus £4F

apis 42 AID G D1

KoIx I 12 1112:a¥'S ALTDMCIT 1D 1£tise Na, AR*SaID.
sCChi1LIM 14114E Jur

GF SAID su.usicri +

LOTS 42 MD CS EB:CAAD SCPIEW Jt,

DIxiior’ 11:1. wros; 1rzeqrc{ atMBrLy AUITT Lie,
s'TOLY UIE OF SAID LOT

2 MD ALS SAID IESTELLY LIME EXIDIZED 1D ALL MIU POITE
TINStE TzDeTHETL ¥ ALLL

111g IESTOLY UIIE GE SAID Lot Z AID ATJIC S1LD
ME'ERL.Y LIIIE D1!JLIED 1D Ni IETEISLEAUM MeLH LIE
Com vie GF x. 401K

S11£tT, IETS A LITE 13.00 FLAT, AS ITE.ISTIIED AT
RILiL1e ALTU'S. L1lm1 OF ALLS
Pim.uL VILR IME Lim! LitlE £2 TLCIIX 1 If ~-aites
.MTUIL 1D TI*TIE tL.

LHEJa WEILY ...._ WD CEgnIR UIE £411£. 4011 stiseT
my

N..CITE SAID COO'ER L£LIt txmaD WIDLY 7D M DI1LIs
etllal IJiw 1218

corTrT UIE OF S. '1..a.9 AvEsrIe; 1'TIBI:E,
SUIII‘HEILY Al.al5 SAID COITET

LIME OF §. YIICDIZES AYEJII£ 1D NL TE"IDSECTS .
weLLLILLe UST'EILI* exTETsGZ

AME tEOn'EI UIE Of £. ICJTIEJT ANEJIZL, AEGIESA!D;
HEALY ciesi'DLT aLas~;

SAID CEJntR 1.1J[ .OF 1. DO AVEJUE Aad AT.CIC suo
corte) 111[ ex qoric To

AIIE POlin' OF IEGI*IIIIi, IJ 111¢ cily oF orIcMo,
opi crunt, rvrizors.

Bl

a

‘The criteria listed in the Act were defined for
purposes of the analysis of structures as follows:
a

Illegal Use of structure:

‘The presence on the

property of illegal uses or activities

2

structure Below Minimum code

Standards:

Local

standards

of

building,

fire,
housing,
zoning,

subdivision o

lack of

conformance with

other

applicable governmental codes

2

Excessive Vacancies: When the occupancy or use level
of the building is low for frequent or lengthy
periods so as to represent an adverse area influence.

Lack of Ventilation, Light or sanitary Facilities:
Conditions which would negatively influence the
health and welfare of building users

Inadequate Utilities:

Deficiencies in sewer, water

supply, storm drainage, electricity, streets or other

necessary site services
Dilapidation:

The condition where the safe use of

the building is seriously impaired, as evidenced by
substandard

structural

conditions;

thie

advanced state of deterioration.

Obsolescence:

hen the structure has become or will

s00n become ill-suited for the originally designed
A condition where the quality of the
building

has

declined

of

structural

integrity and/or building systems due to lack of
investment, misuse or age.

3

overcrowding of Structures apd Community Facilities:
ao.

A level of use beyond a designed or legally permitted

level.
Excessive

Land coverage:

unacceptably high level

BL

Site coverage of an

a

ir

uu.

Deleterious

hand

Use or Layout:

Inappropriate

property

plotting,

other

negative

influences not otherwise covered, which discourages
investment in a property

a.
Depreciation of Physical Maintenance:
Decline in

property

maintenance

which

leads

building

degeneration, health and safety hazards, unattractive

nuisances, unsightliness, property value decline and
area distress.

a.

Lack of Community Planning:

Deficiency in local

direction of growth, development or redevelopment in
order to maintain of enhance the viability of the
area or community.

Methodelegy

The RPA has been evaluated in its qualification as
a "blighted area" on an area-wide basis

The RPA has been

evaluated

according

che

appropriate

qualification

features listed in the Act

B2

Leppewes

mre).
wuittiune

peooLLLIna

ccorearalto

TAX INCREMENT FINANCING ELIGIBILITY REPORT

March 23, 1994

city of chicago

Joel Stauber. O'Donnell Wicklund Pigozei &

PROPOSED OR. MARTIN LUTHER KING DR. AND 41ST ST.
we purpose of ~~: ~epor~ is ~c summarize findings
rela-ed ~o ~he ~=-~~sed ~ax incremen~ financing
distric~

loca~ed adjacen~ ~~ d:e~ and Mar~in Lu-her King Drive
chicago, ::1ine:s.

ive repor~ is divided in-o -our par~s

which inel~de an exa~~na~ion of the proposed
Redevelopnen~

Plan Area

(PA) co-ndaries, review of compliance wih ~he
H1linois ~ax Incre-en~ Alloca~ion Redevelopmen~ Act
(re

Acw) revised in ~994, and docunen-a~ion of» fac-ors
nich

qualify ~he dis-ri.c- j.j.nder

"bligh-ed improved" and

"blighed vacan~" sec~:.ons of ~his Ac».

The proposed ~ax :.neremen~ financing dis-ric~
bovndar~es run irom the cen~er of the inversection of

Eas~ 40th Stree~ and Sou-h Vincennes Avenue southward

to the cen-er of ~he intersection of South Vincennes
Avenue and Eae~ Jowen Avenue,

wee~ to the center of

East Bowen Avenue and South Dr.

vartin Lusher King

Drive,

nor~h’~o the cen-er of the intersection of

South Dr. Marvin Luther King Drive and East 41st
Stree~. east ~o -he cen-er of the alley located
approxima~ely 175! from Dr. Martin iu~her King Drive.

sou-h approxima~ely 120° to the center of the alley
“id-block be~ween Eas~ lst Street and East Bowen
Avenue. east approxima~ely 100° to ~he boundary of
429 and 431 Eas~ dist Stree~. north be~ween the
parcels to the cen-er of East dist stree~. eas~ to
One Nonn frar.1:11n Suue ©i50
chscago..11hno+s 60606
Teleoh- 312 332.9600
itt Loke tiool: riolel
Jenetta. Ulznms 60015,
rele 708 940.9600

spe ee soree THIER Oy ET

un
2ecposed 4-s~ St
ssrare::. 23, 2294
the boundary of 460 and 462 East dist street. ~orth
to the cente~ cf the alley mid-block between ~ast
40th St~eet and ~ast 4let Street. east approx--ately
25" to the easte-n boundary of 65 East 40th st~eet.
north along the easte-n boundary of 465 East 40th
Street to the cente~ cf East 40th Street. ~nd then
east to the center of the intersection of East 40th
Street and South Vincennes Avenue (see Map 2
attached)

She dis~rict is located within Ré

“sd RS zoning

clase-ficat~ons and Residential ?lanned Development
wo. 99 (see Map 5 attached) .

‘The proposed RPA

includes predo~-nantly vacant land with eight
vesident~al bu~ld-ngs. three of which are currently
occup-ed.

Information Sources:

a

chicago Zon-ng Ordinance: Title 17 Municipal code
of Chicago, 1993

2

Sanborn Map Company Inc., Street Map, Revised by
the Depart-ent of Planning May, 1980

2

Chicago Aer~al survey, Aerial Photo at 1*=100",
Spr-ng. +988

ili T

aye

au

el

2reposed 41s~ s~.

Mazer. 23. 2.994

rage 3

TIE ACT COMPLIANCE

a

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

The C-ty of Chicago published The Comprehensive ?1an
of Chicago in 1966

‘This plan has been used as a

guide for development in ~.::.¢ City and is of a form

and substance con~stent w-th comprehens-ve plann-ng.

2
REDEVELOPMENT AREA

The proposed RPA

5 cont~;~ous and contained within 2

single per-meter boundary.

The RPA has not been used

for commerc~al agr-cultural purposes in the last five

years
Eight parcels w-thin the R2A are ~~proved with
buildings and w-1l be evaluated with qualification
factors for "blighted improved" (see Map 2
residential use parcels)

All eight parcels have

three story masonry structures, with the building at
458-460 East Bowen Avenue appearing to contain
residential aparL~ents.

Fifty-two parcels are vacant and will be evaluated
with quali:!:icat;.on ::actors for "blighted vacant".

2
SIZE OF RPA

The RPA is substant~ally larger than the minimum 1.5
acre requ-red by the TIF Act.

It encompasses 60 tax

parcels and totals approximately 7.5 acres of land
including the street r-ght of ways (4.71 acres
parcels only)

u
aa
2ecposed 4s: st

varch 23, 1994

rage 4

a

whe RPA mist be del~~eated to ensu~e t-at ~o
properties will be ~-eluded ~~ the area that do ~ct
Substant~ally benef-~ f-om be-ng included in the RPA.

The redevelopment plan proposed improvenenxs that
represent:

A coordi~ated, rather than piece-~eal,

approach to assure that the components of the

plan combine to meet contemporary developnent
peene=ples and standards

>,

An approach which facilitates elimination of
Dlight~-g factors.

A reasonable and defined time period to

cont~-bute productively to the economc

vital-ty of the RPA,

a

Enhancement of vacant land in the RPA.

A positive ~~fluence on properties near the

5

The RPA has been ir. net economic decline, with no
signs of private i-ves-ent over the past 25 years

It wll :ikely cont~nue its economic declive without
the adoption of the TIF/RPA.

while there has been

development in the :ast 30 years in nearby properties
(Paul G. stewart Apar~ents), all of it has been with
assistance from federal funding.

The current

blighting conditions in the RPA seriously impair the
viability of private residential development

me

Redevelopment Plan ~akes residential development
viable through establishment of 2 TIF district

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
The Redevelopment Plan ~s consis~en~ wit~ The
comprehensive ?lan of Chicago of 1966, the 1993
Chicago Zoning O-d:.-ance and the 1993 mid-south
Strateg-c Development Plan.

The follow-ng are key

aspects of these cdinances or policies of
development:

>.

Comprehensive Plan s-rategic objectives which
include emphasis on expanded opportun-ties

ov ine dvsadvantaged, proper allocat~on of

and

‘eccvomle development and job

apport..:+1. ties, and family life and the
envi: stent.

Cornp::-e; .e~s-ve Plan policies for residential
areas w-!.+~ include making decent, safe, and
san-tati-y ~ousing available to all incone
groups. expand the total housing supply

wethi.n ive city, and to provide more
Giversl.iy :.n choices of housing type within
the oniy.

Comprehensive Plan designates the area as 2
Demons:::-at:.c~ City Opportunity Area which has
potent-al :of coordinated physical-soc~al
temprovenent programs where substantial
clearance would present opportunities for ~ew

housing, and an emphasis would be on aiding
people to becone self-sufficient and to move
uup out c: tre poverty bracket

a.

The wid-South Plan strategic assessment
indicates that the area should be heavily
res:.dent:.al and should accommodate households
with a w-de range of incomes; that population
densities should be large enough to support a
wide variety of retail establishments,
conmun-ty services, and transportation modes;
and that redevelopment of the community

should not mean displacement of current
Sesidents. but inetead, the creation of
opportunities for then.

tte

2reposed 41s~ 5».

Maren 23. :994

rage 6

~ie Mid-South Plan also ~ndicates that vacant,
rots scattered throughout t~e ~-ter~or Bf
quadrant e-ght where th~s site ~s located
should prov-de ample land for var-ous
des-gns.
a

‘The Chicago Transit AuthoritY indicates that
in addit-on to Bus Route 3 on Dr. Martin
wuther King Drive, the nearby Green Line
(which is currently closed for
reconstruct~on) will provide transit access
at 40th and Indiana

whe City's Comprehensive Housing Afford
ab-lity Strategy (FY 1994 to FY 1998)
prov-des that T:fs will be used as a vehicle
of ~ts housing delivery system to ass~st in
“mplenentat~on of ite housing policies and
strateg-es.

Information Sources:

a

Depar~-ent of Planning and Development, The
comprehensive Plan of Chicago, Decenber 1966
Wendell Campbell Associates, inc. ¢ Applied Real
Estate Analysis. Mid-South Strategic Development
Plan:

westor~~q Bronzeville, September 1993,

Chicago Transit Authority, system Map. March 1991
conversation with Sheri Hearnb of the Chicago
Trans~t Authority, February 15, 1994

City of Chicago, Comprehensive Housing
Affordability Strategy, FY 1994 to FY 1998

6

Section 105 Cranaton-Gonzalez National Affordable
Hous-ng Act. 1991

mw
