1998 Annual Report

35" and Halsted
Redevelopment Project Area

Pursuant to Mayor’s
Executive Order 97-2

JUNE 30, 1999
TT eiyattiogs

ae Jane 30,1999
[Sram | the tosoable Mayor Richard M. Daly. Members
ae | Sthe hy Coun un Crzen f he Ciy ofChcago
sot | yet
Lerma | TREN LaSale See
Pim Chicago iis 62

orn dis Ladies and Gentlemen:

‘The attached information for the 35° and Halsted Redevelopment Project
Area, along with 63 other individual reports, is presented pursuant to the
Mayoral Executive Onder 97-2 (Executive Order) regarding annual
reporting on the City’s tax increment financing (TIF) districts. The City's
‘TIF program has been used to finance neighborhood and downtown
improvements, leverage private investment, and create and retain jobs
throughout Chicago.

Pursuant to the Executive Order, the Annual Report, presented in the form
} of the attached, will be filed with the City Clerk for transmittal tothe City
‘Council and be distributed in accordance with the Executive Order.

Sincerely,

Cheistopher R. Hill
Commissioner
Department of Planning and Development

| he COX

| Walter K. Knorr
Chief Financial Officer

a ara

NEIGHBORHOODS

| Staekindtp

See Se

BY ERNsT& YOUNG LLP

June 30, 1999

Mr. Christopher R. Hill
Commissioner

Department of Planning and Development
121 N, LaSalle St

Chicago, Ilinois. 60602

‘Commissioner Hill:

Enclosed is the required annual report for the 35" snd Halsted Redevelopment Project Area,
which we compiled at the direction of the Department of Planning and Development pursuant to
the Mayor's Executive Order 97-2. The contents are based on information provided tous by the
Chicago Departments of Planning and Development, Finance, and Law Department. We have
not audited, verified, or applied agreed upon procedures to the data contained in this repor.
Therefore, we express no opinion on its accuracy or completeness.

The report includes the City’s data methodology and interpretation of Executive Order 97-2 in
addition to required information, The tables in this report use the same lettering system as the
Executive Order in order to allow the reader to locate needed information quickly

It has been a pleasure to work with representatives from the Department of Planning and
Development and other City departments.

Very truly yours,
+ LP

Emst & Young LLP
ee

ee tL

35% and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

ANNUAL REPORT -35"" AND HALSTED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA IN COMPLIANCE
WITH SECTION (4) OF THE MAYOR'S EXECUTIVE ORDER 97-2

PAGE
PURPOSE OF REPORT enn - ’
METHODOLOGY ne a a - '
(2) GENERAL DESCRIPTION sen - a 7
(©) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION... a ’
(©) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN . a ’
(@) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS 5
(©) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECTS)... so °
(®) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS. 0
(a) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS on a : u
() SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY. 2
(0) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS oon : B
() FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER. “
(&) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS, 1s
() CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS. - 6
(im) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT 0

(0) ATTACHMENT - REDEVELOPMENT PLAN. i
Ca “=

35% and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

Purpose of Report:

‘The purpose ofthe Annual Repor for the 35th and Halsted Redevelopment Project Atea (Report) i
to provide information regarding the City of Chicago (Cit) tax increment inancing (TIF istics in
‘existence on December 31, 1998, as required by the Mayor's Executive Order 97-2 (Executive
(Onder). Tis Report covers the 35tb and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area (Project Ares).

Methodology:

In the process of providing information about the Project Area, care was taken to follow the
‘organization ofthe Executive Order to allow the reader to locate needed information in an efficient
‘manner. The Repor reflects only TIF economic activity during 1998, also referred to in tis reportas
“the prior calendar year.” As outlined below, several assumptions were made concerning certain
required information.

(@) General Description
‘The general boundaries of the Project Area are described and illustrated in a map. However, in order
to provide ease of reading, only major boundary streets are identified. For exact boundaries, the
interested reader should consult the legal description of the Project Area boundaries found in the
Redevelopment Plan (Attachment),

(b) Date of Designation and Termination

For purposes of this Report, the date of termination is assumed to occur 23 years from the date of
designation, the maximum duration currently allowed under the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act.

(©) Copy of Redevelopment Plan

‘The Redevelopment Plan, as amended (if applicable), for the Project Area is provided as the
Attachment atthe end ofthe Report.
—_ . = se

ro

35% and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(@) Description of Intergovernmental and Redevelopment Agreements

Table D describes agreements related to the Project Area which are either intergovermmental
agreements between the City and another public entity or redevelopment agreements between the
City and private sector entities interested in redeveloping all or a portion ofthe Project Area. The
date of recording of agreements executed by the 1998 and filed with the Cook County
Recorder of Deeds is included in Table D (if applicable).

(© Description of TIF Projects

Table E describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has already received approval by the
Community Development Commission, and which received TIF financing during 1998. Those
projects in discussion, pre-proposal stage with a developer, or being reviewed by Community
Development Commission staff are not “projec” for purposes of the Report. The amount budgeted
for project costs and the estimated timetable were obtained from the Project Area's
intergovernmental or redevelopment agreements, if such agreements exist. Table E specifically

1) the nature ofthe project;
2) the budgeted project cost and the amount of TIF assistance allocated to the project

3) the estimated timetable and a statement of any change in the estimate during the prior
calendar year;

4) total City tax increment project expenditures during the prior calendar year and total City
‘tax increment project expenditures to date;

5) a description ofall TIF financing, including type, date, terms, amount, project recipient,
and purpose of project financing.
i a ae ae)

35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area .
1998 Annual Report

(8) Description of all TIF Debt Instruments
‘Table F describes all TIF debt instruments related to the Project Area in 1998. It should be noted
that debt instruments issued without a security pledge of incremental taxes or direct payments from
incremental taxes for principal and interest are not included in Table F, as such instruments do not
‘qualify as TIF debt instruments as defined by the Executive Order. Table F includes:

1) the principal dollar amount of TIF debt instruments;

2) the date, dollar amount, interest rate, and security of each sale of TIF debt instruments
and type of instrument sold;

3) the underwriters and trustees ofeach sale;
4) the amount of interest paid from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998);

'5) the amount of principal paid from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998),

(g) Description of City Contracts

‘Table G provides « description of City contracts related to the Project Area, executed or in effect
‘during 1998 and paid with incremental tax revenues. In addition, the date, names of all contracting
‘parties, purpose, amount of compensation, and percentage of compensation paid is included in the
lable. Table G does not apply to any contract or contract expenditure reported under (eXS) of
Section 4 ofthe Executive Order.

City contracts related to the Project Area are defined as those contracts paid from TIF funds, not
related to a specific TIF project, and not elsewhere reported. Items include, but are not limited to,
payments for work done to acquire, dispose of, or lease property within a Project Area, or payments
to appraisers, surveyors, consultants, marketing agents, and other professionals. These services may
affect more than one project in a Project Area and are not otherwise reported. Table G does not
report such noncontractual cost items as Recorder of Deeds filing fees, postage, telephone service,
etc. City contracts include term agreements which are city-wide, multi-year contracts that provide
‘200d or services for various City departments.

ee

35 and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area -
1998 Annual Report

(h) Summary of Private and Public Investment Activity

Table H describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has been executed through an
intergovernmental or redevelopment agreement in 1998, or that has been approved by the
‘Community Development Commission in 1998,

To the extent this information is availabe to the Commissioner of Planning and Development on a
completed project basis, the table provides a summary of private investment activity, job creation,
and job retention within the Project Area and a summary for each TIF project within the Project
Area,

Table H contains the final ratio of private/public investment for each TIF project. The private
investment activity reported includes data from the intergovernmental or redevelopment
agreement(s) and any additional data available o the Commissioner of Planning and Development.
Other private investment activity is estimated based on the best information available to the
‘Commissioner of Planning and Development.

) Description of Property Transactions

Information regarding property transactions is provided in Table I to the extent the City took or
divested title to real property or was a lessor or lessee of real property within the Project Area.
Specifically, the Executive Order requires descriptions of the following property transactions
‘occucring within the Project Area during 1998:

1) every property acquisition by the City through expenditure of TIF funds, including the
location, type and size of property, name of the transfer, date of transaction, the
‘compensation paid, anda statement whether the property was aequired by purchase or by
eminent domain;

2) every property transfer by the City as part of the redevelopment plan for the Project
‘Area, including the location, type and size of property, name of the transferee, date of
transaction, nd the compensation paid;

3) every lease of real property to the City ifthe rental payments are to be made from TIF
funds. Information shal include the location, type and size of property, name of lessor,
date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the rental amount;
i

2 =

me

35% and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

4) every lease of real property by the City to any other person as part of the redevelopment
plan for the Project Area. Information shall include the location, type and size of
property, name of lessor, date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the
rental amount.

) Financial Summary Prepared by the City Comptroller
Section (j) provides a 1998 financial summary for the Project Area audited by an independent

Certified public accounting firm. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These statements include:

1) the balance inthe fund forthe Project Area at the beginning ofthe prior calendar year,

2) cash receipts by source and transfers deposited into the fund during the prior calendar
year;

3) transfer credits into the fund for the Project Area during the prior calendar year;

4) expenditures and wansfrs from the fund, by stnutory category, forthe Project Area
during the prior calendar year,

5) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at the conclusion of the prior calendar year.

(k) Description of Tax Receipts and Assessment Increments

Table K provides the required statement of tax receipts and assessment increments for the Project
‘Area as oulined inthe Executive Order. The amount of incremental property tax equals the
incremental EAV from the prior year multiplied by the applicable propery taxrates. Actual receipts
‘may vary due to delinquencies, sale of prior years’ taxes, and payment of delinquencies. See the
financial report for actual receipts. Table K provides the following information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales tax increment and state sales tax
{increment deposited in the fund during the prior calendar year;
a a ce i

35% and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area,
1998 Annual Report

2) for a utility tax Project Area, the municipal utility tax increment and the net state utility
tax increment amount deposited in the special allocation fund during the prior calendar
year;

3) fora property tax Project Area, (A) the total initial equalized assessed value of property
Within the Project Area as of the date of designation of the area, and (B) the total
‘equalized assessed value of property within the Project Area as of the most recent
property tax year;

4) the dollar amount of property taxes on property within the Project Area attributable to
the difference between items (3)(A) and (3)(B) above.

All terms used in Table K relating to increment amounts and equalized assessed value (EAV) are
construed as in Section 9 of the Ilinois Tax Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act or the
IMlinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law. Unless otherwise noted, the EAV and property tax
information were obtained from the Cook County Clesk’s Office. ‘All sales tax information was
‘obtained from the City of Chicago.

(D Certain Contracts of TIF Consultants

Table L provides information about contracts, if any, between the TIF consultant who was paid by
the City for asisting to establish the Project Area and paid by any entity that has received or is
currently receiving payments financed by tax increment revenues from the Project Area. The
contents of Table L are based on responses to 2 mail survey. This survey was sent 10 every
consultant who has prepared at least one redevelopment plan for the establishment of a
redevelopment project area within the City in 1998. The Exceutive Order specifically applies to
contracts that te City’s ax increment advisors or consultants, if any, have entered into with any
entity that has received or is receiving payments financed by tax revenues produced by the same
Project Area

(m) Compliance Statement Prepared by an Independent Public Accountant

‘As part of the audit procedures performed by independent accountants, certain compliance tests Were
performed related tothe Project Area. Included in the Annual Report is an audit opinion indicating
‘compliance or non-compliance with the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act of the
linois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate. Section (m) provides this statement.
35 and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(a) GENERAL DESCRIPTION

‘The Project Area is located on the southwest side of the City of Chicago, approximately four
niles from the Central Business District. The Project Area is generally bounded by West 31"
and West 35° Streets on the north, South Halsted on the eat, West Pershing Road on the south,
and South Ashland Avenue on the west. The map below illustrates the location and general
boundaries ofthe Project Area, For precise boundaries, please consult the legal description in
the Redevelopment Plan (Attachment)

1
U

y, oer rr i

2. 2 aS _

35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

The Project Area was designated by the Chicago City Council on January 14, 1997. The Project
Area may be terminated no later than January 14, 2020.

(©) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
The Redevelopment Plan for the Project Area, as amended (if applicable), is contained in this
Report (Attachment).

(a) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS

ste
TER vERENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT AGRENENTS
eags 70 DaTEor ATE. are orneconons
“ape — amonengvay Grr anaabinnescebasas
wine’ “Vawvetuxtn” exectnow “onetime

= se Se

35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(e) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT(S)
‘TAREE,

_DESCRIPTIONOF TIF PROJECTS APPROVED BY THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION WITH EXPENDITURES
[DURING THE PRUOR CALENDAR YEAR

sanding Sone,

ont
ee ee

= el

35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(f) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS

During 1998, there were no TIF debt instruments outstanding forthe Project Area
— =e

= bt

35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS:

TABLE G
DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS RELATED TO THE PROJECT AREA
CONTRACTING
PARTIES AMOUNT OF —_PERCENTOF
win THe pare oF COMPENSATION COMPENSATION
ITV OFCHICAGO EXECUTION __PURPOSE PADDUIs9 _ PAIDTODATE
(ST Envirnmental —TermAgrement_StiievPin/Adin, soo 100%
Luk, Schneier Asacates Term Ageement StulesPiaw/Adnin, $2678, om
RealEstate Annis Cop. Term Agreement StutePlaw/Adein 6000 100%
Nakawsas, Wins & Auccites Tem Agreement Stuie/Pun/Admin $11,391 a0
‘Chicago Tide nmeance Co. 1998 Propey Assembiy Cons 8,400 ro0%e
analy & Kier 1998 SttievPua/Admin 2:00 100%
Emit Yous 1998 Stade Pas/Admin, sen 100%
(Coy TF Progr Adminseaion 1998 ——_Stueu Plain sions 100%
‘Treas of Sate fist 1998 StaiesPlas Admin, sam 100%

35* and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(b) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

During 1998, there was no information available regarding public or private investment activity
in the Project Area.

n
35 and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
tT 1998 Annual Report

(i) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS

| paring 1955, the City dil ot ke a divest td sl propery within th Pet Area
‘Additionally, the City was nota lessor or lessee of real property within the Project Area during
1998.

fs Ss _

ok

1B
35° and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area_
1998 Annual Report

( FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER,

AND 1997

an, 19:

i i is
a =e

Se

SATLOF curcaco, TuLINOTS

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
REQUIRED AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Balance sheets
Statements of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance
Notes to financial statements
REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
Year 2000 readiness disclosure
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Schedule of cash activities
Schedule of expenditures by statutory code
BaNstey ann Krener. L.L.P.
Centirien Pumiic Accountants

- ins sour maces ame

‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of the 35th and Halsted
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Tllinois, as of December 31,
i998 and 1997, and the related statements of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance for the years then ended.” These financial
Statements are the responsibility of the City of Chicago’s management. Our
Fesponsibitity is to express an opinion on these financial starenencs based
on our audits.

We conducted cur audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
Of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the 25th and Halsted
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois, as of December 31,
1998 and 1997, and the results of its operations and changes in fund balance
for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, in 1998 the 35th and
jalsted Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicagé, Illinois changed its
method of accounting for investments.

i = oe me

2 mm

‘The year 2000 information on pages 7 and @ is not a required part of the
financial statements, but is supplementary information required by the
Governmental Accounting Standards Board, and we did not audit and do not
express an opinion on such information... Further, we were unable to apply_to
the information certain procedures prescribed by professional standards
because of the unprecedented nature of the year 2000 issue and its effects,
and the fact that authoritative measurement criteria regarding the status of
venediation efforts have not been established. In addition, we do not
provide assurance that the City of Chicago is or will become year 2000
Gompliant, that the City of Chicago's year 2000 remediation efforts will be
successful in whole or in part, or that parties with which the City of
Chicago does business are or will become year 2000 compliant.

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the
financial statenents taken as a whole. The achedule of cash activities on
page 9 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory code on page 10, waich
Are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago's management, are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not @ required part of
Ehe financial statements of 35th and Halsted Redevelopment Project of the
City of Chicago, Illinois. Such additional information has been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audite of the financial statements
and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects when
Considered in relation to the financial statemente taken as a whole.

enaey ord Karr, LP

fertified Public Accountants

May 4, 1999
— oe se

2 me

: cuteago,

BALANCE suEers
DECEMBER 31. 1228 un 1207

ASSETS
cash and investments
Property taxes receivable
Accrued interest receivable

Total assets

are:
Deferred revenue
Vouchers payable
Due to other city funds
Total liabilities
Fund balance
Total liabilities and fund balance

1228
$352,540

33,000
28a
292.352,

3 33,000
30,978
7.005
134,983
257,168

$222.)52

$1,773,856

28,000

S 24,969
475

28,482
797,517

Ang notes are an integral part of the financial statements
— ee

= eu

Revenues
Property tax
Interest

Total revenues

Expenditures
Capital projects

Revenues over (under) expenditure

other financing sources:
‘Operating transfers in (Note 2)

Revenues and other financing sources
over (under) expenditures

Fund balance, beginning of year

Fund balance, end of year

$29,682
22.558

202,341

1.842.690
(2,549,349)

(2,540,349)
4222.52
ieee

S$ L398

88,130

53,899

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
a Se ee ae

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Project

‘The 35th and Halsted Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Area
(Project) was established in January 1997. The area has been
established to finance improvements, leverage private investment
and create and retain jobs. Reimbursements, if any, are made to
the developer for project costs, as public improvements are
completed and pass City inspection’

Basis of Accounting

‘The Project is accounted for within the special revenue funds
of the city.

‘The financial statements are prepared on the modified accrual
basis of accounting and current financial resources measurezent
focus with only current assets and liabilities included on the
balance sheet. Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual, i.e., both
measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current
period. Available means collectible within the current period or
‘Soon enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
period. Expenditures are recorded when the liability ie incurred.

Fixed assets are not capitalized in the general operating
funds but, instead, are charged as current expenditures when
purchased. The General Fixed Asset Account Group of the City
includes the capital assets, if any, of the Project.

Management's Use of Estimates

‘The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires managenent to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilicies at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Tllinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act Compliance

The Project's expenditures include reimbursements for various
eligible costs as described in subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3
of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act and the
Redevelopment Agreenent relating specifically to the Project.
Eligible costs include but are not limited to survey, property
assembly, ‘rehabilitation, public infrastructure, financing and
Felocation cost:

}

ms

Note 1 -

Note 2 -

Note 3 -

CETL OF cu LINoL
‘2S0H_AND HALSTED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

(Gonkinued).

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
cash and Investments

Cash belonging to the City is generally deposited with the
City Treasurer as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago. The
City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City expenditures
which represent a claim for payment when presented to the City
Treasurer. Paynent for all City warrants clearing is made by
checks drawn on the City’s various operating bank accounts.

‘The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share responsibility
for investing in authorized investments. Interest earned on pooled
investments is allocated to participating funds based upon their
average combined cash and investment balances.

On January 1, 1998, the City adopted GASB Statement No. 31,
saccounting and Financial Reporting for Certain Investments and for
external Investment Pools." Accordingly, the City values its
investments at fair value, or amortized cost

Property Taxes

Property taxes are susceptible to accrual and recognized as a
receivable in the year levied. Revenue recognition is deferred
unless the taxes are received within 60 days subsequent to year-
end.

Operating Transfers In
During 1997 in accordance with state statutes, the Project

received $1,743,618 from the contiguous Stockyards Northwest

Quadrant “Redevelopment Project for the acquisition and

redevelopnent of property within the Project area.

Commitments

As of December 31, 1998 the Project has entered into contracts
for approximately $28,000 for services and construction projects.
os SRE ns Se

— +
a a ey

2000 DISCLOSURE (UNAI

Phe city's operations, Like chose of many. ou siness entities, may be
impacted by the inability of certain computer progFams and electronic aystens
with embedded microprocessor chips to recognize calendar dates beyond the
Year 1999. Unless such programs and microprocessors are modified or replaced
Brior to the year 2000, they may not function properly after 1999.

‘The City formed an executive committee in May 1998, to oversee possible
City-wide year 2000 impacts. The Department of Business and Infornation
Services has been charged with managing the City's year 2000 project. The
year 2000 issue ia covered within the scope of the City's year 2000 project.
‘The year 2000 project is divided into stages as follows

Awareness Stage - Establishing a budget and project plan for dealing
with the year 2000 issue.

Assessment Stage - Identifying the mission critical systems, equipment
and individual components for which year 2000 compliance is'needed.

Remediation Stage - Making changes to systems and equipment.

Validation/testing Stage - Validating and testing the changes that were
made during the remediation stage.

‘The City committed approximately $28.2 million and $32.0 million in 1998 and
1999, respectively, for the repair and replacement of year 2000 compromised
systems. As of December 31, 1998, the City entered into contracts for
approximately $17.7 million for the test plan development, audit stages and
upgrade of certain software programs.

Mission Critical Applications

‘The City has identified one computer application, the Chicago Accounting and
Purchasing System, as critical to conducting the operations for year 2000
compliance. As of December 31, 1998, the City completed the awareness and
assessment stages, and the remediation stage was in process for the above
mission critical component. This mission critical component is still subject
to the validation/testing stage. The City-wide completion of all stages is
scheduled for September 1999.

Enbedded Systems

‘The awareness stage, including an inventory of embedded systens has been
completed. Baseline assessment of mission critical functions involving
enbedded systems was substantially completed by the end of the first quarter
of 1999, The City has retained outside consultants to manage and implement
completion of this aspect of the year 2000 project by the end of September
1999

00 wD)
(Continued)

_Other

The City also initiated an assessment of mission critical vendors, which is
being performed by a consultant with oversight from the executive committee
to plan for continuity in the City's supply chain. Contingency planning for
mission critical systems and other elements of the year 2000 project is
Scheduled to be completed by the end of September 1999.

‘The above description of the stages of work to address the year 2000 issues
ie not a guarantee those systems will be year 2000 compliant. Although the
City is ‘currently on schedule to meet its objectives for year 2000
Compliance, there is no assurance that compliance will be achieved in a
timely manner. Further, if the City successfully addresses its year 2000
issues, there is no assurance that any other entity or governmental agency
(including governnental organizations or entities that provide essential
infrastructure) with which the City electronically interacts will be year
2000 compliant. At this time, the City can not determine the potential
Impact of auch noncompliance on the business and financial condition or the
results of its operations

|

—_— -@ se _

Cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received
Payments for capital projects
Interest received
Operating transfers in

Increase (decrease) in cash and investments
cash and investments, beginning of year

cash and investments, end of year

Reconciliation of revenues and other financing
) expenditures to net cash
(used in) operating activities
‘and other financing sources
over (under) expenditures
Adjustments to reconcile revenues and other
financing sources over (under) expenditures
to net cash provided by (used in)
operating activities
Changes in a
Property
Accrued interest receivable
Changes in liabilities - increase
Deferred revenue
Vouchers payable
Due to other City funds

$29,713
(2,621,220)
159,491
(1,422,016)
773,556
Far sseery

$(2,540,349)

(8,000)
36,832

8,032,
30,503
——201.267

sQ.422.016)

8 2163
(33/718)
62,493,

3.743.618

1,773,556

PSURLE RST 9

91,797,517

(25,000)
(24/443)

24,969
475
—_2

ESvenewerry
ae — 2s _

HEI STATUTORY CODE

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans
‘and specifications, implementation and
administration of the redevelopment plan
including but not limited to staff and
professional service costa for architectural,
engineering, legal, marketing

Costs of property assembly, including but not
Limited to acquisition of land and other
property, real or personal, or rights or
interests therein, demolition of buildings,
and the clearing and buildings, and the
Clearing and grading of land

Coste of rehabilitation reconstruction or repair
or remodeling of existing public or private
buildings and fixtures

$60,768

8,400

-10-

$11,864

22,367
|

35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area _
1998 Annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

TABLE K
DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

MUNICIPAL STATE MUNICIPAL NETSTAT
SALESTAX SALESTAX UTILITY TAX. UTILITY TAX,
YEAR INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT _ INCREMENT

NA@)  NAQ@ = -NAQ@ NAG)

eros

1s

orAL
TOTAL INCREMENTAL
INITIAL 1997 PROPERTY
Eav EAV TAXES 197

sso938228 $72,893969 $33,671
35% and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

() CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS

| Daring 1998, no TIF consultant was pid by the City for asising to establish the Project Area
and pid by any ent tht has received ors curently resiving payments nance by ak increment
revenues rom the Project Ares.

|

a

16
35" and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area -
1998 Annual Report

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY
ACCOUNTANT

INDEPENDENT PUBLIC

@e cL
mc . = aw

__... Banstey ond Kioner, LLP.

+ Ceres Puble Aecounonts,

aad 1922

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the balance shect of 35th and Halsted Redevelopment Project of the City of
Chicago, Illinois as of December 31, 1998, and the related statement of
revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for the year then
ended, and have issued our report thereon dated May 4, 1999.

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that caused us
to believe that the Project failed to comply with the regulatory
Provisions in Subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Illinois Tax
Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (0) of Section
11-74.6-10 of the Tilinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law as they relate to
the eligibility for costs incurred incidental to the implementation of the
35th and Halsted Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois.

This report is intended for the information of the City of Chicago's
management. However, this report is a matter of public record, and its
distribution is not limited.

aad Berr, vce

certified Public Accountants

May 4, 1999

35 and Halsted Redevelopment Project Area
ft 1998 Annual Report

| ATTACHMENT
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

os
<2 a

Se

Ciry oF CHICAGO

‘SSTWHALSTED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

‘TAXINCREMENT FINANCE PROGRAM

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT

Passed
ity Council
January 14, 1997

Cry oF cwcaco
Ficnano M. DALEY

PREPARED BY
LOUIKSCHNEIDER & ASSOCIATES, INC.

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT FOR
{ ‘SSTH/MALSTED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
‘TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PROGRAM.

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

{
)

a my

. SOURCES OF FUNDS TO PaY REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS...
F Most RECENT EQUALZED ASSESSED VALUATION «

H. Lack OF GROWTH ANO DEVELOPMENT THROUGH INVESTMENT BY PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
|. FivancAs IMPACT OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT...

J. DeMANO ON Taxina DISTRICT SERVICES... :
K noana To ADDRESS FAMMEAL aN SEN AGS
L. PROVISION FOR AMENDING ACTION PLAN...
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN

IN. PHASING AND SCHEDULING OF REDEVELOPMENT

APPENDIX .
TaBle 1

ESTIMATED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS... ...sseseseeeee
Tae?
1995 EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION .....

Boar 1

[ASSETS ANO LIABILITIES BY SUBAREA
Exner 2

1980 SeLecTeD Census Data FOR

(CENSUS TRACKS LOCATED IN THE 3STWHALSTED STUDY AREA
our 3

1990 SeLecTeD Census Data FoR.

(CENSUS TRACKS LOCATED IN THE SSTHHALSTED STUDY AREA . ..
xu 4

LEGAL DESCRIPTION ....

Exe 5
BUILDING Penwr REQUESTS

MAPS LEGEND

++ 100

+ 104
<= = —

ee

iy o creage
35trmaisied” Resevtcomen Pian

LinrmooueTion

‘The 3stvHalsted Redevelopment Project Area (hereafter refered toa the “Redevelopment Project
Area’) is located on the near southwest sde othe cty of Chicago, approximately three to four miles
{tom the central business district; much of tis encompassed by the Stockyarés Industrial Corder
‘The Redevelopment Project Area comprises approximately 518 acres ang includes 63 (ful ang
partal) cty blocks. tis gonerally bounded by 31st and 3st Streets on the north property fronting
Morgan Steet and Halsie Steet, and te alley between Halsted and Emerald Streets onthe east:
Pershing Road on the south; and Ashland ang Damen Avenues on the west. The boundaries che
Redevelopment Project Area are shown on Map 1, Redevelopment Project Bouncy.

‘The Redevelopment Project Area is located within a larger community that was once a major
‘industrial center that included the Union Stock Yards and the Central Manufacturing Distict(CMDO).
Its development pater reflect these earier land uses. Today, the Redevelopment Project Area
‘tll contains prmariy industrial, reskental, commercial, and insttusonal land uses. It continues to
be well suited for these types of land applications.

‘The Redevelopment Project Area is wol stated wihin he broader community, tis located near
the citys coral business cstnct and i proumiy to an excelent regional suace transportation
network. The Dan Ryan Expressway (interstate 90/94) is located less than a mile east ofthe
Redevelopment Project Area with access poms atboth 3s Steet and Pershing Road. Through
the use of Pershing Road, 31st Sveet. 35th Street, Ashiand Avenue, and Damen Avenue, the
‘Stovenson Itarstate 55) and the Essenhower (interstate 290) expressways are located within Wo
to four mies, respectively, rom the Redevelopment Projet Area.

‘The major local access routes serving the Redevelopment Project Area include Pershing Road,
316t Street, 35th Street, Halsted Street, and Ashland Avenue. Additionally, the Redevelopment
Project Area is well sorved by pubic transportation making the site easily accessiie tothe focal
work force, The CTA maintains a station nearby at 35th Steet on the rapid transi line that runs
‘along the Oan Ryan Expressway, and at Archer Avenue and Halsted Street along the southwest
rapid transit ine. Also, public transportation is avaiable via CTA buses along Pershing Road, 31st
‘Street, 35th Street, Halsted Street, and Ashland Avenue.

‘While the Redevelopment Project Area has cortain assets, is labilies are signifcant and have
Inhibited he area's overal redevelopment (Exhibit 1). Much of the Redevelopment Project Area is
ccharactonzed by:
+ vacant land:
* vacant buildings, many of which are obsolete due to their old age and design (\e., mult

‘+ cutmoded plating;
+ excessive building buk and density on some parcels;

LouaSchneider& Associate, n@__ ln
_£ 2 oe _

a

Gay o cicage
‘Sstvtasted Redevelopment Pa,

incompatible land uses:
Lunderulized property:

inadequate infrastructure;

oor property maintenance: and/or

‘unused or abandoned railroad rights-of-way.

Consequenty, much of the Redevelopment Project Area is in need of redevelopment andlor
revtalzation. ‘Through the assembly of propery and the use of public incentives, large-scale
redevelopment and revitalization can be achieved.

Recognizing the redevelopment potential of the Redevelopment Project Area, the City of Chicago
is taking action to facilitate its revializaton. The City recognizes that the trend of physical
‘deterioration, obsolescence, depreciation and other bighting influences wil continue to weaken the
Redevelopment Project Area unless the City itself becomes a leader and a partner with the private
Sector in the revitalization process. Consequenty, the City wishes to encourage private
development activity by using tax increment financing as a prime implementation tool.

‘The purpose ofthis Redevelopment Pian is o create a mechanism to allow for the development of
‘new residental, industrial, commercial, and mixed-use facilties on existing vacant or underutlized
land; the redevelopment and/or expansion of existing viable businesses and industries; and the
rehabiitation of existing property. “The redevelopment of the Redevelopment Project Area is
‘expected to encourage economic revializaton within the community and the surounding area.

‘A AREA HisTORY .

‘The Redevelopment Project Area is stuated wihin two of Chicago's 77 community areas. The
Portion east the Chicago Rivas located within Bridgeport which is bounded by the Chicago River
‘on the norm, the C. & Wl. raliroad right-of-way on the east, Pershing Road on the south, and the
Chicago River on the west. The portion located west of the Chicago River is part of the McKiniey
Park community area which is bounded by ne Stevenson Expressway (interstate 55) on the north,
the Chicago River on the east, Pershing Road on the south, and the B. & O.C.T. railroad right-ot-
way on the west

‘The early development of both of these communities was influenced primariy by the completion of
the linois and Michigan Canal in 1848, the Union Stock Yards in 1865, and the Central
‘Manufacturing District in 1908 and 1916, The industrial, residential, commercial, and insttutional
land use patioms currently reflected within the Redevelopment Project Area are representative of
the development pattems that were estabished ary on.

‘The industrial uses are stil concentrated south of 35th Street between Halsted and Ashland in he

‘area of the original CMD which was bounded by 35th Street on the north, Morgan Street on the
‘east, Pershing Road on the south, and Ashland Avenue on the west. Commercial uses are sill

LounSchnerser& Associate, ne 2

<_< = 2

ty ef Crespo
‘3Stvtastea Resevlonment Pan

Centered along Halsted Street in the vicrity of 35th Street, and the residental community is stil
located north of 35th Street.

Bridgeport

‘According to the 1980 Local Community Fact Book. Bridgeport became a boomtown in 1848 as a
‘result of the completion of he linois and Michigan Canal which linked the Cy of Chicago withthe
Mississippi River. Canabrelated industries and businesses flocked to the area which was
Conveniently located near this water transportation route. As stated in the Local Community Fact
ook, "The chiet industry was meat-slaughtering which ullized the ready supply of water in the
‘slaughtering process."

‘According to Chicago's Pride: The Stockyards, Packingtown, and Environs in the Nineteenth
Century, "The vast majorty of the packinghouses in the late 1860's were located on the southern
bank of the South Branch and they dominated if in Bridgeport" Wit the advent of the Union Stock
Yards, the meat packers moved south and west of the yards, encouraged by improved rairoad
facilites in thess locations.

AAs a result of these early developments, residential and commercial areas grew within the
Bridgeport community. By the late 1800's, a small shopping district emerged at the intersection of
35th and Halsted. By the end of the 19th century, accorting tothe Local Community Fact Book. *.

fan electric trolley system was introduced in the area, streets were paved, and other public
improvements made."

By the early 1900's, the Bridgeport community's industrial base expanded tb include part ofthe CMD
which was the frst planned industrial development in the United States. According to the Urban
Land Insttute's Industral Development Handbook, the development was spearheaded by
representatives of the Union Stock Yard and Transit Company to attract additonal fright for the
‘company's betta ine which served the Union Stock Yards.

‘The author of Chicaga: City of Neighbomnoods states that “In 1902, a group of investors headed by
Frederick H. Prince bagan to buy up land north ofthe Union Stock Yards. The Prince interests had
‘earlier purchased the Union Stock Yard & Transit Company and its belt ine raroad. the Chicago
‘Junction Railway .. In 1905 he announced plans for anew Contral Manufacturing Distnct (CMD)
. . The new real estate development proved to be a pioneering etfort. The Orginal East Disc,
‘aiong 35m Steet and east of Ashland Avenue, was an immediate success. In 1912, the Wiliam
Wrigley Company moved its chewing gum factory to 35th and Ashland Avenue in the CMD... By
1915 other thriving industies had filed the orignal 265-acre development. A former cabbage patch
‘and lumber yard had been tured into a majo industrial complex by the time World War I broke out
in the summer of 1914."

“The Union Stock Yards, packing houses, and the CMD were an important source of employment
for Bridgeport. Back of the Yards and other south side residents. The rairoads which served the

LouwSchnarda & Associates Ine ‘

3

a

ayer Cneage
Ssbvtasted Redevelopment Pan

various factories and packing houses also employed many community residents. However, by the
late sixies and earty seventes, his once strong indusinal center was in decine. To revitalize the
area, the City of Chicago initated many public improvements to suppor revitalzaton inthe former
‘Union Stock Yards Area creating the Stockyards Industral Park. Those cty efors included the use
Cf tax increment fnancing to faciltate redevelopment,

‘Mckinley Paris

McKinley Parks located directy west o! Bridgeport ands situated northwest ofthe old Union Stock
Yards site. McKinley Park was onginaly setled by laborers working on the ilinois and Michigan
Canal. The author of Chicago Ciy of Neighborhoods states that “The area quicky developed from
4 small farming community to an industrial center as Chicago reached out trom its origins atthe
‘mouth ofthe river to transform its immediate hinterand.*

‘According to the 1880 Local Community Fact Book, significant development of McKinley Park did
‘not occur unt! 1863 when i was incorporated into the limits ofthe City of Chicago. Once the Union
‘Stock Yards opened in 1865, workers wore attracted to the community. However, the community
{id not experience rapid growth until the 1880's and 1890's.

By the turn of the century, most McKinley Park residents were employed in the meatpacking
industry. Later employment opportunites were avaiable asa resut of the development o the CMD
‘bounded by 35th Steet on the north, Morgan Street on the east, Pershing Road on the south. ang
‘Ashland Avenue on the wast.

‘Because of the success of the original CMD development ste (the East Distict), a new area was
developed (the Pershing Road District) in 1916 along the south side of Pershing Road between
‘Ashiand and Westem Avenues. According to Chicago: City of Neighborhoods, “The new buidings
stood on land bordering the Chicago Junction Raitway's classification yards. This was crucial
because all CMD tenants agreed to use the railroad for their products. One of the major tenants of
the development along Pershing Road... was the United States Army, which took up residence
in October 1821 ... and remained at this site unti 1961."

By the 1920's, McKinley Park had a stable industrial and residential base. However, ke the rest
of the Stock Yards area, McKinley Park suttered trom the loss of jobs inthe meatpaciong industry
‘and the general deciine of the CMD.

‘Central Manufacturing District

nada to the Union Stock Yards, the CMD great influenced the development ofthe Bridgeport
‘and McKinley Park communities as well as that of the Redevelopment Project Area. As siated
previously, the original East District and the Pershing Road District of the CMD were located within
the boundaries of he Redevelopment Project Area. Like the Union Stock Yards, the CMD was an

ooh/Sermeiser Associate, pe___ lg
-Onegnat East Distne, tne} Pershing Road O-stnct opened x 1918. Atmougn conanterabty smamer
than the 260-acre Original East District, ine Persning Road Distnct had several unique features:

+ acentral power unit to provide steam and electric curent for ight, neat, and
ower to serve tne entire tract;

‘+ a central spnnker system to protect all structures in the tract and to avoia
‘unsighty tanks;

+ centrally locates treigntstaton for convenience of LCL. {less than carioad)
freight originated, or consigned to industries. in the district

+ standardized structural design based on the minimum height of sx stories
land basement. complete wit plumbing, light heat, and sprinkler systems,
‘and high-speed elevators;

+ undergroung trafic system with concrete tunnels which supplemented
‘surface facities by connecting all buidings with each other and with the
central freight staton, and which provided fast, safe transport of goods and
‘materia; and

+ underground utity system of concrete tunnels which conveyed utites rom
the central power unit to all plants, to avoid unsightly surtace accessones.”

In addition to these unique features, the Pershing Road District included a mie of frontage on
Pershing Road wit the buildings oriented toward the roadway, and It overlooked beauttl McKinley
Park. According to the Industral Development Handbook, these locational characteristcs were
forerunners of trends developed several decades later n the sie planning of modern industrial parks.

D. AREA PROFLE

‘The Study Area continues to reflect the development and economic influences of the Union Stock
‘Yards and the CMO as evidenced by its current land uses and demographics.

‘Land Use and Zoning Characters

(Currently, the primary land uses within he Study Area includes industrial, residential, commercial,
‘institutional, vacant land, and rairoad rights-t-way. General, the property in the Study Area
located north of 35tn Streets characterized by lower intensity residential, imited commercial and
‘Scattered industrial uses, whe the property south of 35th Steet is distngushed by higher intensity
industrial uses.

‘According to historical accounts, the area north of 25th Steet generally included residential and
‘commercial uses with some industrial actwty concentrated along the rivertront. The commercial

Cay of ceca
Sshaatea. Redecorent
‘Land Use and Zoning Charactensts

CCurrenty, the prmary land uses wihin the Redevelopment Project Area incude indusinal,
resdental, commercal.inssutional. vacant land, and railroad nghts-o-way. Genera. the propery
in tie Redevelopment Project Area located north of 35th Street's characterized by ower intensity

rwsidental, limited commercial and scattered incustral uses, whie the property soun of 35th Street
's distinguished by higher intensity industrial uses.

‘According to historical accounts, the area north of 3Sth Street generally inctuded resigential anc
‘commercial uses with some industrial actvty concentrated along the riverfront. The commercial
uses were concentrated along Halsted Stret in he vcinty of 35tn Steet. The residential uses were
‘Scattered about the area, General, this same type of land use pater stil exsts today.

‘As mentioned previously, most of the southem portion of the Redevelopment Project Area was the
Site ofthe CMD including tne Orginal East Distt and the Pershing Road District. This porton is
stil traversed by railroad spurs as in the early 1900's, some of which are situated in the same
locations. Some of the orignal users attracted to the CMD are stil present today.

Given the size and diversity of the Redevelopment Project Area, i zoning is varied. The
[Predominanty industrial and insttutonal areas are generally zoned for general manutacturing to
heavy manulacturing uses (M2-3, M2-4, M3-5) or motor freight terminal uses (C-4). The residential
‘areas are generally zoned for multiple family housing (R3, R). The zoning for the commercial
‘areas is varied and includes restricted service districts (B4-2), general service districts (85-3),
resvicted retail disvicts (82-1) local retail cisbicts (B1-1, 81-2), general retail ste (83-2, 83-3),
restricted commercial disticts (C1-2, C1-4), and general commercial districts (C2-2,C2-3).

‘Demooraphic and Statistical Characteristics

‘A variety of demographic and other statistical data were collected forthe general area in which the
Fledevelopment Project Area is located. The Census of Population and Housing data for 1980 and
11980 were compiled by the Chicago Area Geographic Intormaton Study (CAGIS) of the University
of ilinois at Chicago (Exhibits 2 and 3), and only ratect the census tacts which comprise the
‘sections of the Redevelopment Project Area that contain residents. These census tracts include
{6008, 6009, 6013, 6014 in te Bridgeport community area which is bounded by the Chicago River
‘on the north the C.&W. raliad right-of-way on the east, Pershing Road on the south, and the
CChicago River on the west, and 5907 which is part of the McKinley Park community area that is
bounded by the Stevenson Expressway on the north, the Chicago Fiver on the east, Pershing Road
fon the south, and the B. & O. ralroad right-of-way on the west,

{In addition to the population and housing data, selected economic data were collected for the

‘community areas in which the Redevelopment Project Area ies, and primanty reflect information
compiled by the Woodstock institute in its Focusing n report published in 1983.

Loww/Scmneter& Assocs ne 7

+

iy o Cneago

_35homaiste- Regevtoomen Pan

Population ane Housing Charactenstes

‘According to the census tract data, the population within the selected area
‘eciined sighty by 0.3% trom 11,614 persons in 1980 to 11.582 persons in
1990. ‘The Briogeport communty area experienced a greater population eciine
‘of 3.4% whe the McKinley Park community area's population increased sighty
by 04%,

‘The total number of housing units within these census tracts decreased by 1.1%
from 4,914 units in 1980 to 4,858 units in 1990. During this tme period, the
‘Bridgeport community area experienced a deciine of 2.5% while the McKinley
Park community area's housing decreased by 2.0%.

‘Most of the population residing within these census tracts in 1980 (63.7%) and
1990 (62.2%) wore renters rather than owners. In 1980, 63.7% af the occupied
housing units were rented rather than owned. In 1990, this figure was 62.2%.
This trend was reflected in the Bridgeport community area where 57.4% of the
‘occupied housing units were rented in comparison to 60.8% in 1980. The

Park community experienced a higher percentage of owner occupancy.
In 1980, only 51.2% of the occupied housing units were rented. By 1990, this
percentage decreased 10 49.2%.

(Of the vacant buildings identified witin these census tracts, 71.0% of them were
‘dentiied as unused in 1990. In 1980, this figure was only 32.4%. The vacancy
rate for these census tracts has increased from 9.2% in 1980 to 10.2% in 1990.
‘This i higher than the vacancy rates for the broader community areas. For
Bridgeport, the vacancy rate Increased from 7.7% in 1980 to 8.8% in 1990. in
‘the McKinley Park community area, the vacancy rato increased from 7.0% in
1980 to 8.6% in 1990.

In 1990, almost haif of the population (44.8%) residing in these census tracts,
‘wore either unemployed or nat in the labor force. In 1980, the percentage figure
was 48.4%. Of the employed persons identified in 1990, the majorty of them
wore employed in administrative suppor. service, of operatorfabricatoriaborer
‘occupations in the retall rade and manutacturng industies.

Economic Characteristics

LouwSchnaider& Associates, ne

‘According to residential lending data. the Bridgeport and McKinley Park
‘community areas experienced a decrease in home improvement and FHAVA
loans during the period of time from 1963 and 1984 to 1991 and 1992.
Bridgeport experienced a decrease of 24.9% and 25.8%, respectively. during this
time period while McKinley Park exhibited a deciine of 17.6% and 21.1%. Both

--. = ee

Gay of Creage

‘SivMasied” Regevelopmant Pan,

‘Summary

‘community areas expenenced increases in conventional ang mutfamaiy
residental loans fer this time period.

In addition to the decrease in certain types of residential lending, residential
building permits for repairs and improvements decined within Bridgeport and
‘McKinley Park from the period of sme from 1977 and 1981 to 1988 and 1992.
[Bridgeport experienced a 9.6% decine while McKinlay Park exnibited a decrease
of 6.8%. However, residential buiding permits for new constuction increased
witin both community areas, trom 87 to 185 in (131.3%) in Bridgeport and trom
three to 16 (433.2%) in McKinley Park for this same time period.

‘While new residental construction increased in Bridgeport and MeKinley Park
‘during the period trom 1877 and 1981 to 1988 and 1982, the new construction
‘of commercial and industrial buidings deciined in both community areas
Bridgeport experienced a deciine of 11.1% while McKinley Park experienced &
‘decrease of 50.0% for this time period.

‘Commercial lending by municipal depositories decreased in the Bridgeport
‘community area trom 0.2% in 1987 to 0.15% in 1991 with the Bridgeport
‘communty area cropping in rank, by total funds lent, from 20 to 37. For this
‘same tme period, commercial lending in McKinley Park by municipal
‘depositories generally remained constant at approximately 0.1% although the
McKinley Park community area decreased In rank, by foal funds lent, from 41 in
1987 to 43 in 1991.

‘According to employment data tabulated by zip code trom 1975 to 1980, he
Psan 2p code area (60606) which s bounded by Roosevelt Road on the north,
Halsted Street on he east, 35th Steet onthe south, Calforia Avenue onthe
‘west, and encompasses most ofthe Redevelopment Project Area, experienced
2 deci in total employment of 15.7% which was greeter than that of te City
‘25a whole which expenenced a decine of only 44%. During this time period,
‘manutacturing employment decreased by 19.8% in the 60608 zp code area.
Fetal employment increased slighty by 5.0% tor this zip code area which
includes commersal dates outsite ofthe Redevelopment Project Area such
as Roosavelt Road and 26th Street. For all ther employment, 2p code 60608
cotabied a decroase of 16.1% which paral the Cty's emenience of 8 16.6%
ecine.

‘According tothe demographic data collected. the census tracts in which the Redevelopment Project
‘Area is located are characterznd by a state population and housing base wih litle change having
‘occurred between 1980 and 1990. During this ime period, the housing vacancy rate has increased
{3s has the number of vacant properties that were Kjentfed as unused, Additionally, almost halt

Louh/Schnetir& Aasocaen Ie. °

_— ae _

&

iy of Cneage
SShmaieed” Regevlspman Pan

(44.8%) of the workage population residing within these census tracts were unempioyed or notin
the labor force in 1990; a condition that has remained statc as evidenced by the 1980 figure of
48.4%. The broader atea in which the Redevelopment Project Area lies also evidenced
Corresponding characteristics as reflected by decreases in population, housing, cerain types of
residental lending, the construction of new commercial and industrial buildings, and empioyment
during the 1980s.

(C. TAX INCREMENT ALLOCATION REDEVELOPMENT ACT

‘An analysis of conditions within this area indicates that tis appropriate for designation as a
Redevelopment Project Area, under the State of lincis Tax increment Financing legislation. The
Redevelopment Project Area is characterized by conditions which warrant its designaton as a
‘vacant and an improved "Bightod Area" within the defitions set forth in the Tax Increment
‘Allocation Redevelopment Act (hereafter refered to as tne Act’). The Acts found in 65 ILCS 5/11-
744-1 et 0q., as amended.

‘The Act provides # means for municipalities, ater the approval of a "Redevelopment Plan and
Project. to redevelop a blighted conservation area and industial park of at least 1.5 acres by
pledging the increase in tax revenues generated by pubse and private redevelopment. This increase
‘in tax revenues is used to pay for up-front public costs which are required to simulate the private
Investment in new redevelopment and rehabilitation. Municipalities may issue obligations to be
‘repaid from the stream of real property tax increments that occur within the tax increment fnancing
distict.

‘The property tax increment revenue is calculated by determining the ciference between the intial
Equalized Assessed Value (EAV) or the ‘Cortfied EAV Base’ fr all real estate located within te
istet and the current year EAV. The EAV is the assessed value of the property multiplied by the
state mutipier. Any increase in EAV is hen muttipied by the current tax rate, which determines the
incremental real property tax.

‘The aStHaisted Redevelopment Project Area Tax Increment Finance Redevelopment Plan and
Project (tie “Redevelopment Plan’) has been formulated in accordance wit the provisions of he
‘Act. Its a guide to all proposed publi and private acsan in the Redevelopment Project Area. in
Addition to describing the objectives of redevelopment, the Redevelopment Pian sats forth the
Coverall program to be undertaken to accomplish these objectives. This program is the
‘Redevelopment Plan and Project.

‘This Redevelopment Plan also specifically describes the Redevelopment Project Area. This area
ests the eligibility requirements of the Act (see 3SttvHalsted Tax increment Finance Program -
‘Eigbiity Study). The Redevelopment Project Area boundaries are described inthe Introduction of
the Redevelopment Plan and shown in Map 1, Redevelopment Project Boundary.

‘Attar approval of the Redevelopment Plan, the City Council wil then formally designate the
Redevelopment Project Area.

Lounrsermeiser & Associates, 10

3 we

Cay of Cneage
‘35hvbaned” Reseveloomen Pan

‘The purpose of this Redevelopment Pian is to ensure that new development occurs:

1 (On a coordinated rather than a piecemeal basis to ensure that the land-use,
vehicular access, parking, senvce and urban design systems wil meet modem-day
principles and standards;

2 ‘On a reasonable, comprehensive and integrated basis to ensure that blighting
factors are eliminated; and

3a Within a reasonable and defined time period.

‘Revitalization of the Redevelopment Project Area isa large and complex undertaking and presents
‘challenges and opportunites commensurate to is scale. The success of this effort will depend to
4 large extent on the cooperation between the private sector and agencies of local government.

The City of Chicago by the approval ofthis Redevelopment Plan finds thatthe Redevelopment Plan
conforms to the Comprehensive Plan or that as a city wit a population of 100,000 or more,
regardless of when the Redevelopment Plan and Project was adopted, the Redevelopment Plan
‘and Project either: () conforms o the strategic economic development or redevelopment plan issued
by the designated planning autnorty of the municipality, of (f)inctudes land uses that have been
‘approved by the planning commission of the municipality.

‘There has been no major investment in the Redevelopment Project Area for atleast the last five
years. The adoption of te Redevelopment Pian wil make possible the implementation ofa logical
rogram to stimulate redevelopment in the Redevelopment Project Area, an area which cannot
‘easonabiy be anticpated to be developed without the adoption ofthis Redevelopment Pian. Public
‘investments will crate the appropnale erwronment to attract the investment required for the
rebuilding of the area. But for ne investment of Seed funds by he City the proposed developments
would not Be financial feasible and would not go forward.

‘Successtulimplamentation of the Redevelopment Plan and Project requires thatthe City of Chicago

take fll advantage of the realestate tax increments atributed tothe Redevelopment Project Area
1s provided in accordance with the Act

LowkiScmeider & Asscineg ney
2 = &

=m &

cry of cneage
‘SShtasted Recertopment Pan _

U. REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION

‘The Redevelopment Project Area is located on the southwest side of the City of Chicago, Ilinois
‘ocated approxmately four miles south of the Citys Central Business District. The Redevelopment
Project Area contains approximately 518 acres. The Redevelopment Project Area is generally
bounded by 31st and 35th Streets on the north; propery fronting Morgan Steet and Halsted Street,
and the alley between Halsted and Emerald Streets onthe east Pershing Road on the south; and
‘Ashland Avenue on the west. -

‘The boundaries ofthe Redevelopment Project Area are shown on Map 1, Redevelopment Project
‘Boundary; the current land uses are shown on Map 2, Exsting Land Uses. The Redevelopment
Project Area includes only those contiguous parcels of real property that are expected to be
‘substantially benefited by the Redevelopment Pian.

‘The legal description of the Redevelopment Project Area is attached to this plan as Exhibit 4.

LouaScrnater& Aasostes, ne

Gay of creago,
‘2Shmaised” Redovecpment Plan =

IL, REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

‘OVERALL GoaLs ANO OssecrivEs,

‘vera goals and cbjecoves ae included in tis Redevelopment Plan to guise the decsions and
ctvtie hat wil be Undertaken to acitate te redevelopment ol he Redevlopmen: Project Area
‘They are conestent win he G's Comore oIndusral Opportunty plan adopted by the Chicago
Plan Commission n March 1958. A subsequent secon o his Redevelopment Plan erifes more
<etaiog cojecoves torte reseveopment of specie porvons cl the Redevelopment Projet Area.
Many of ese goale and bjectves can be actioved trough te atctve use of ocal, tate, and
foeral mechanisms.

GENERAL Gous
In order to redevelop the Redevelopment Project Area in an expeditious and planned manne. the
‘establishment of goals is necessary. The folowing goals are meant to serve as a guideline in the
development andor review of al future projects hat wil be undertaken in the Redevelopment
Project Area.

. Improve the quality oie in Chicago by impreving the economic vitally of the
Redevelopment Project Area.

. Provide sound economic development in the Redevelopment Project Area,

: Create an environment within the Redevelopment Project Area that will
Contribute to the health, safety and general wetare of the city and preserve oF
‘enhance the valve of properties in the area.

: ‘Create a suitable location for housing, business, and industry.

. Provide an accessitle and atractive physical environment that is conducive to
new development.

. Rledevelop underutiized properties.
. Develop vacant land.
: ‘Assemble properties to create an environment for furthering private investment.

. ‘Attract new businesses, and retain and encourage the expansion of and/or
modernization of existing viable businesses,

Lewh/Semeicer& Associates, neg
J: a Bs

&

Gayot Cncage

‘3ShiMaseg Resevlopmant Pan

(Create and preserve quailty job cpportunites.

Encourage a diverstied economy which provides an array of employment
‘opportunities.

‘Create a secure, functional, and atractve environment for businesses, employees,
‘and residents.

‘Achiove desirable changes of land use through a coordinated public/private
tert.

REDEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

‘To achieve the general goals of this Redevelopment Plan, the following redevelopment objectives:
have been established.

Reduce or eiminate those concitons which quality the Redevelopment Project
‘Area as a bighted area.

Enhance the tax base of the Ciy of Chicago and ofthe other taxing districts
‘which extend into the Redevelopment Project Area by encouraging private
investment in new development. and by facitating the redevelopment of
tunderutlized propery.

‘Strongthen the economic wol being of he Redevelopment Project Area and the
Cy by increasing business activity, taxable values, and job opportunites,

Enhance the business, industrial, and residential actvty in the Redevelopment
Project Area by providing addtional public and private infrastructure
Improvements and other relevant and avaiable assistance necessary to achieve
successful new development and redevelopment.

‘Provide needed incantives to encourage a broad range of improvements for Both
‘new development and the rehabiltation of existing buidings.

Enhance the markstabilty ofthe Redevelopment Project Area through the use
‘of City programs.
Establish a mechanism, wit an appropriate level of resources, to effectively

market the Redevelopment Project Area, particulary the industrial and
‘commercial components, to sultable entities andor users.

LowdSomender Associa, ne 4

4

ity of cncago

“Halsted = Redeloent Pan

Improve local and state roadways to enhance circulation within and around the
Reecevelopment Project Area and to strengthen its visual appeal along heavily
traveled routes.

Eliminate unnecessary streets, alleys, and railroad rights-of-way to increase the
‘amount of land available for prvate investment and redevelopment.

Eliminate any existing environmental contamination through the remediation of
affected sites.

Encourage the participation of minorities and women in te development of the
Redevelopment Project Area.

Desicn Osyectives

Although overall goals and redevelopment objectives are important in the process of redeveloping
‘such a large area, the inclusion of design guidelines is necessary fo ensure that redevelopment
activites result inthe development of an atractve and functonal environment. The folowing design
‘Objectives give a generalized and directive approach to the development of specific redevelopment

Projects

Establish a pater of land use actvties arranged in compact and compatible
(groupings to increase etfciency of operation and economic relationships.

Encourage the coordinated development of parcels and structures in order to
‘achieve attracive and efficient building design, unified off street parking,
‘adequate truck and service facilities, and appropriate access to nearby arterial
streets.

[Achieve development whch is ntagrtad bath Lnctonaly and aestnetcaly with
‘adjacent and nearby exstng development.

Ensure safe and functional crculaton patter, adequate ingress and egress,
‘and capacty in te Redevelopment Project Area.

Encourage high standards o bulding and streetscape design to ensure the high
quay appearance of buidings, rights-of-way and open spaces.

Ensure that necessary security, screening, and butleing devices are attractively
designed and are compatible with the overall design of the Redevelopment
Project Area. .

LousSennner& Assooate. ne. 1s

“ 2s ss _

‘eh naned” Redewlpnen Pan.

. Use signage and other devices to establish identifiable subareas within the
Redevelopment Project Area to facilitate the marketabiity of property.

LounScnnaier& Associates, ne

— = Se

iy of cricago
‘3Staraisic Recnlcoment Plan,

IV, BuowTeD AREA Conomons ExsTINa
‘We THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

‘The Act states that a “lighted area” means any improved or vacant area within the boundaries of
Redevelopment Area located within the terional limits of the municipality where, # improved,
industrial, commercial and residential buildings or improvements, because of a combination of ve
‘oF more of the following factors: age; diapication; obsolescance; deterioration; ilegal use of
indhidual structures; presence of stuctures Delow minimum code standards; excessive vacancies;
‘overcrowding of structures and communtyfacitis: lack of ventilaton, ight or sanitary facies;
inadequate utities; excessive land coverage; deleterious land use or layout: depreciation of physical
‘maintenance; or lack of community planning, are detmental tothe public safety, health, morals or
woltare: o,f vacant, the sound growin ofthe taxing districts is impaired by 1) a combination of two
‘oF mare of the following factors: obsolete plating of the vacant land: cversty of ownership of such
land: tax and special assessment delinquencies on such iand: deterioration of structures oF site
improvements in neighboring areas acjacent tothe vacant land, or (2) the area immediately prior
to becoming vacant qualified as a Dighted improved area, of (3) he area consists of an unused
‘quarry or unused quarries or (4) the area consists of unused ral yards, ral tracks or ralroad rights-
‘of-way, oF (5) the area, prior tots designation, is subject to chronic flooding which adversely impacts
‘on real property in he area and such flooding is substantially caused by one or more improvements
in orin proximity to the area which improvements have been in existence for a least five years, of
(6) the area consists of an unused cisposal site, containing earth, stone, bulding debris or similar
‘material, which was removed from construction, demolition, excavaton or dredge sites, or (7) he
‘area is not less than 50 nor more than 100 acres and 75% of which is vacant, notwithstanding the
act that such area has been used for commercial agricutural purposes wihin five years prior to the.
designation of the redevelopment project area. and which area meets atleast one ofthe factors
Itemized in provision (1) above, and the area has been designated as a town or vilage center by
ordinance or comprehensive plan adopted prior to January 1, 1982, and the area has not been
developed for hat designated purpose.

‘Based upon surveys, site inspections, research and analysis by Louik’Schneider & Associates, nc.,
the Redevelopment Project Area qualifies as a vacant and improved Blighted Area as defined by
the Act: it contains areas that are both vacant and improved. Vacant land exists troughout the
Redevelopment Project Area in small parcels or groups of parcels, These parcels because of their
ispersed nature and smal size were considered part ofthe improved porton of he Redevelopment
Project Area. However, large tracts of vacant land and unused land also exst. These tracts of land
‘were reviewed under the vacant land provisions of the Act.

‘A separate report entiled “Oty of Chicago 3SthyHalsted Tax increment Financing Program Eigiblty
‘Study dated July 9, 1996, describes in detall the surveys and analyses undertakon and the basis.
for he finding that the Redevelopment Project Area qualifies as a vacant and improved Blighted
‘Area as defined by the Act. The majorty of the Redevelopment Project Area is characterized by the

Louw/Senneiders Associates ine
ezat

= 2

iy of cicago

presence of vacant or improved area blighted eligibility factors listed in the Act for a Blighted Area.
‘Summarized below are the findings of the Eligibilty Feport

‘SUMMARY OF VACANT BLIGHTED AREA EUGIBILTY FACTORS

‘The largest single ract of vacant and within the Redevelopment Project Area is located between
{1st Place on the north, just north of 84th Place on the south, Benson Street33rc StreevRacine
‘Avenue on the west and the South Fork of the South Branch ofthe Chicago Fiver on the east. This
‘Porton of the Redevelopment Project Area contains 21 vacant contguous parcels covering four full
‘and paral blocks and containing 29 acres of vacant land.

This pan of te Redevelopment Project Area qualifies as a vacant Blighted Area because it
evidences a combination of two or more ofthe following vacant bighted area eligilty factors:

‘obsolete platting of the vacant land
versity of ownership of such land

tax and special assessment delinquencies on such land

flooding on all or part of such vacant lana

‘etenoration of structures or ste improvements in neighboring areas adjacent othe vacant land

(Of hese factors, the vacant portion of the Redevelopment Project Area exhibits: 1) obsolete plating:
‘and 2)alversiy of ownership.

1. OBSOLETE PLATMNG OF VACANT LAND
“The vacant portion of the Study Area consists of 21 tax parcels which contain a total of 21
lots. Only one parcel is of sufcient size for contemporary industrial uses: however its of
‘wapezoidal shaped. The second parcel is a very small and almost square parcel of
‘approximately 10,000 square feet. The last parcel is an L-shaped parcel which makes
industrial development extremely unikaly o occur. Therefore, obsolete patting is a factor
within the vacant portion of the Study Area.

2. DIVERSITY OF OWNERSHIP OF VACANT LAND
Diversity of ownership is present in the vacant area. Of the 21 parcels, there are seven
‘muttple property owners. The number of diferent owners would impeded the abiity of a
developer to assemble the land for development meeting contemporary development
standards.

In acto to these vacant bighted area eigbilty ctera, the vacant porton of the Redevelopment
Project Area also qualifes as a vacant bighted area under the critaria that 1) the arva consists of
‘unused rail yards, al racks or railroad rights-of-way, and 2) the area consists ofan unused disposal
site containing debais from construction demolition, excavation or dredge sites. Or these crtoria,
only one needs fo be significantly present in the vacant area to quality as a vacant bighted area.

oun Schmeise & Associates,

i
q
i

iy of crcago,
‘3ShiMalsted” Redevesomen: Pan

1, THE AREA CONSISTS OF UNUSED RAIL YARDS, RAIL TRACKS OR RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
‘The vacant porson of he Study Area isa former raiyard. There are numerous ral rights-of-way
that run through the center of the vacant area.

2. THEAREA CONSISTS OF UNUSED DISPOSAL SITE CONTAINING DEBRIS FROM CONSTRUCTION DEMOLTION,
EXCAVATION, OR OREDGE SITES.
The vacant area of the Study Area is covered wih debrs and consrucson material, and is
tengutled with waste resulting from fy-dumping.

‘SUMMARY OF IMPROVED BLIGHTED AREA ELIGIBLITY FACTORS

‘Ten improved blighted area eligibility erteria are present in a varying degree throughout the
Redevelopment Project Area.

‘The conclusions of each ofthe factors that are present wihin the Redevelopment Project Area are
‘summarized below.

1. Age
‘Age. a8 reflected by buildings 25 years or older. is present throughout the Study Area. Of the
"720 buildings located within the Study Area, 642 of them or 89% are 35 years or older. Age is
‘present to a major extent in 59 of the 61 blocks, and present io a minor extent in 1 of the 61
locks.

2. DILAPIOATION
Dilapidation, an advanced state of disrepair of buildings and improvements, is present
‘throughout the Study Area. This factor is present to @ major extent in 53 of the 61 blocks,
present to a minor excentin 10 of the 61 blocks, and exhibited in 297 of the 720 buldings located
within the Study Area.

3. Opsoescence
Obsolescence, both functional and economic, is present throughout the Study Area. This factor
is present to a major extent in 34 of the 61 blocks, and present to @ minor extentin 17 of the 61
blocks. Within the Study Area, many parcels are of Inappropriate size or shape, public
improvements such as aleys and street widths are inadequate, and structures are incapable
of efficient oF economic use according to contemporary standards.

4. DeTeRoRATION
Deterioration is prasant in structures with physical deficiencies or site improvements requiring
‘major treatment or repait. This factors present to a major extent in 57 of te 61 blocks, present
‘0.8 minor extontin 3 of the 61 blocks, and exhibited in 635 of the 720 structures located within
the Study Area.

Loun/Schnaider& Associates, Ie. 19

om Ee

ayo
"Bai alved Redveloman Pla

5. PRESENCE OF STRUCTURES BELOW MouuM CODE STANOAROS
‘Structures below minimum code standards are present to a imitad extent in 16 ofthe 81 blocks.
within ne Study Area. Of the 720 buidings located in te Study Area, 26 of em were enttied
{8 being below minimum code standards.

6. Excessive VACANCIES
Excessive vacancy is a factor throughout the Stusy Area. Excessive vacancies, including
Completely and partaly vacant swuctures, are present to a major extent in 22 of he 61 blocks,
land present to a minor extent in 26 of the 61 blocks.

7. OVERCROWDING OF STRUCTURES AND COMMUNITY FACIES
Overerowding of structures and commun facilities is present to a very limited extent in the
‘Study Area: itis present in 1 of he 61 blocks.

8. LACK OF VeMTLATION, LiokT OR SANTARY FACILITIES
Structuresin the Study Area exhibiting inadequate ventlaton or ight are those with no windows
‘or having boarded-up windows. This factor is present to a major extent in 18 ofthe 61 blocks,
‘and present to a minor extent in 22 ofthe 61 Blocks. Based on exterior building surveys. 178,
(of the 720 buildings inthe Study Area were identfied as having inadequate ventlaton or ight.

9. ImapeouaTe Unumes
Evidence of inadequate utities is present to a minor extentin 16 ofthe 81 blocks located within
the Study Area.

10, EXCESSIVE LAKD COVERAGE
Excessive and coverage, manitested by the over-intensive use of property and the crowding of
buildings and accessory facilities onto a ste, is present throughout the Study Area. The factor
is exhibited to a major extent in 32 ofthe 61 blocks, and present to a minor extent in 20 of the
61 Blocks. Of the 720 buidings located wihin the Study Area, 349 exhibited this factor.

11, DELETERIOUS LaNo USE OF Lavour
Deleterious land uses include all instances of incompatbie land use relationships, buikings
‘occupied by inappropriate mixed uses, or uses which may be considered noxious, offensive, oF
‘environmentally unsuitable. Deleterious layout is evidenced by the improper or cbsolete plating
‘of land, inadequate street layout. and parcels of nadequate size or shape to meet contemporary
‘development standards. This factor is present to a major extent in 45 of the 61 blocks, and
present to a minor extent in of the 61 blocks within he Study Area.

12, DEPRECIATION OF PHYSICAL MADTTENANCE

Depreciation of physical maintenance, marilosted by substantial deferred maintenance and lack
‘of maintenance of buidings, parking areas and streets, Is present to a major extent inal ofthe

LouiSemeer& Associates 20

<< =

ity of Cneago
Stead « Recerca an

61 blocks within te Study Area. OF the 1040 parcels in the Study Area, 038 of them exhibit th
‘acter,

19. Lack oF Communery PLaveuNa
Given that the proposed Redevelopment Project Area was developed prior to of without the
guidance of a community pian lack of communty planning is present to a major extent in 39 of
‘he 61 Blocks in the Study Area,

(Of he 61 blocks located within the Redevelopment Project Area, the folowing improved blighted
‘area eligilty factors are present to major and minor extent.

Facrors. PRESENT TOA PRESENTTOA
Mason Extent Mawon Exrexr

Age
Dilapidation
‘Obsolescence
Deterioraton
legal use of individual
structures
Prosence of structures below
‘minimum code standards
Excessive vacancies
‘Overcrowding of structures
‘and community facies
9. Lackot ventlaton, ight,
or sanitary facies
10. inadequate usities
11. Excessive land coverage
12. Deleterious land-use or layout
19. Depreciation of physical maintenance
14. Lack of community planning

Concuusion

1
10
7

BLEBOR co Bo o VBS
3

“The conclusion of the consultant team engaged to conduct the study is thatthe number, dagree and
istibution of factors as documented in tis report warrant the designation of the Redevelopment
Project Area as a vacant and improved Blighted Area as sot forth inthe Act. Speciicaly:

. ‘Of te seven factors sat orth in the lw for vacant land, two are presentin the vacant
portions of the Redevelopment Project Area.

LouaSchneider& Associates gay
onyerencaye, -
‘SShvaeeg Resevtooman Pia

: All portions of the vacant area of the Redevelopment Project Area are impacted by
Cone or the other ofthe three blighting factors for vacant land,

. Cf the 14 factors for an improved Biighted Area set forth in the law, 10 are present
in the Redevelopment Project Area and only five are necessary for Gesignation as
‘2 Bightod Area,

. ‘The improved bighted area factors which are present are reasonably
distributed throughout the improved porton of the Redevelopment
Project Area

. All improved areas within the Redevelopment Project Area show the
presence ot improved bighted area factors.

{All blocks inthe Redevelopment Project Area evidence the presance of some eigibilty factors. The
‘ligibty ndings indicate hat he Redevelopment Area is bighted and in need of revtalizaion and
‘hat designation as a redevelopment area will contribute tothe long-term well Being ofthe City. All
‘factors incicate that he area on the whole has not been subject fo growth and development through
Investments by private enterprise, and wil not be developed without action by the City.

‘The analysis above was based upon data assembled by Louik/Schneider & Associates, Inc.
Macande Corp. and Cityworks Planning Group, Inc. The surveys research and analysis conducted
include!
1 Exterior surveys of the condition and use of the Redevelopment Project Area:
2 Field surveys of environmental conditions covering streets, sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, fighting, atic, parking facies, landscaping, fences and walls, anc general
property maintenance:

EY ‘Comparison of curent land use to current zoning ordinance and the current zoning
maps:

4 Historical analysis of site uses and users;
‘Analysis of original and curent plating and buiding size layout
6 Review of previously prepared plans, studies and data;

7 Analysis of bulking permits requested from the Department of Buildings for all
structures in the Study Area over the last ten years;

LoumSehnecers Assooutes eae
q

a

Cryo chicago
‘Ebvbaered” Regeetooment ar

8 Evaluate the Equalized Assessed Valuation for the lat five years;

°. Collect and comple the Census of Population and Housing data through
the Chicago Area Geographic information Study of the University of
Minis at Chicago; and

10. ‘Assemble historical economic data complied by he Woodstock insttute

‘Based upon the findings of the Eigibty Study forthe 35tvHalsted Study Area, he Redevelopment
Project Area on the whole has not been subject to growth and development through investment by
private enterprise and would not reasonably be anticipated to be developed without the adoption
Of this Redevelopment Plan. But for the participation of investment of seed funds by the City, the
proposed developments would not be financialy feasible and would not go forward.

Loui Scnneiser & Associates, 23

a
a
i

(iyo Cneage
‘5hMaised Resevecomen Pian,

\V. SSTWMALSTED REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT

‘A. GENERAL LaNO Use PLAN.

‘The Land Use Plan identifies the proposed land uses that willbe in effect upon adoption of this
Redevelopment Plan (Map 3). The major land use catagories for the Redevelopment Project Area
include commercial, residential, industrial, and mixed-uses. The locaton ofall major thoroughfares
and major street rights-o-way are subject to change and modiication as speciic redevelopment
Projects are undertaken.

‘This Redevelopment Plan and the proposed projects described herein will be approved by the
Chicago Pian Commission prior othe adoption ofthis Redevelopment Pian, and are consistent with
the City's Comcors of Opportunity: A Plan for Indust in Chicago's South Sige. The general land
‘uses proposed forthe Rledevelopment Project Area are described by subarea.

HaLsTED STREET SUBAREA

‘The Halsted Street subarea is bounded by 31st Steet on the north the alley Detween Halsted Street
‘ang Emerald Avenue on the east, 37th Street on the south, and the alley between Halsted and
Green Streets and on the west (Map 3). Itencompasses a long-estabished neighborhood shopping
istrict that originally developed inthe late 1800's. The predominant land uses within this subarea
‘are ground floor commercial and upper foor residential. It is characterized by vacant storefronts,
‘scattered vacant buildings and parcels, smal lots, imited off-street parking, and the lack of
‘commercial continuity among the ground floor uses. Aditionally the volume and speed of traffic
‘along Halsted Street impacts a shopper's abilty to easily cross he street

While this subarea reflects certain blghting characteristics, t continues to be well suited for
Commercial and residental development based on existing land use patterns, the availablity of
vacant and underutlized properties sultable for commerciaVresidential rehabiltation, and its
adjacency toa stable neighborhood. Consequenty, this subarea is designated to accommodate
primarily convenience-type commercial and upper foor residential uses.

(MORGAN STREET SUBAREA

‘The Morgan Street subarea includes all propery tronang on Morgan Street between 31st Street on
the north and 35th Street on the south, and all propery fronting the south side of 35m Steet
‘between Morgan Steet on the west and the alley between Lituanica Avenue and Halsted Street on
the east (Map 3).

Louw Schnerser & Associates Ie Pa

a

a =

Cay of cricage
Stevtemed Pederoement Pan.

‘Current, the primary land use along Morgan Street is residential although, in the past. it was
dominated by commercial uses. Like the Halsted Street shopping district, Morgan Street's
commercial base has shrunk as a resut ofthe overall area's changing economic base. Ths secton
cof he subarea is characterized by scattered vacant buitings, and aging infrastructure. Additionally,
the use of Morgan Street as a vehicular bypass to he Halsted Stree! commercial area results in high
speed through trafic that presents a confit with residential uses. The primary land uses along 35th
Sweet win he subarea inciude a mix of industrial and residential, Consequently, 2s porton of
the subarea is characterized by incompatible land uses.

White tis subarea is in eed of certain improvements to stimulate redevelopment, t continues to
be suites to predominant residentl uses. itis envisioned that Morean Steet willbe transformed
into a residential stroet. and the industrial uses along 35th Street wil be replaced by resent

‘SANGAMON STREET SUBAREA

‘The Sangamon Steet subarea is generally bounded by 37th Place on the north, the alley between
Halsted Street and Emerald Avenue on the east. Pershing Road on the south, and Morgan Street
fon the west: and includes the properties tronting on Halsied Street between 37th Street and 37th
Place as well as he properties fronting on the east side of Morgan Street from the alley between
35th Street and 35th Place on the north and 37t Place on the south (Map 3)

Development within this subarea generally has been fight industrial in nature with uses supporting
the heavy industrial activites located in the surounding ares. This subarea has long been a
transition zone butting the commercial and residential areas on the north and east from the heavy
industrial uses on the south and west. itis antcipated thatthe successful redevelopment of his
‘subarea will occur relative to the successful redevelopment of the surrounding heavy industrial
‘areas. Consequently, redevelopment is anticipated 1 be targeted toward industral-support uses.

(MonaaN STREET INDUSTRIAL SUBAREA

‘The Morgan Street Indust subarea is bounded by 3sth Street on the north, Morgan Street on the
‘east, Pershing Acad on the south, and the Chicago River on the west (Map 3). Historically, this
‘subarea has consisted of industal land uses, and was originally developed, beginning in 1905, as
fan industrial district. Its boundaries reflect the boundaries of the easter half ofthe Original East
Distrctof the CMD. Current, this subarea is characterized by inadequale roadway infrastructure,
2 lack of identity, buildings unsuitable for redevelopment for modem industrial uses, and the poor
condition of some buildings.

‘The Morgan Street Industrial subarea continues to be well suited to industrial development given
Its history as an industrial area, the surrounding land use patterns, its proximity to an excelent
Surface transportation network, and the presence of vacant and underutlzed property sutable for

2

<

Gayot ceage.
‘SSovrised Redevelopment Pan,

Industrial development. It is envisioned that this subarea will be transformed into a cohesive,
‘modern industrial park.

BENSON PARK SUSAREA

‘The Benson Park subarea is bounded by 31st Place, Benson Street, 33rd Street, and 34th Place
‘on the north; Racine Avenue and the ally between Carpenter and Morgan Streets on the east, 35th
‘Sweet on the south; and the Chicago River on the west (Map 3). Histoncal, this subarea has been
dominated by industrial land uses. However, its current primary land uses include vacant land,
vacant industrial buildings, underutilized parking lots which used to serve the industrial uses, and
scattered commercial uses.

[New industria development within this subarea is unikaly o occur inthe future given the subarea's
Constraints which include: 1) the limited amount of vacant land available for development in
‘comparison to the surouncing area which offers an abundance of opportunities that are better
Suited to modem industrial development, and 2) is adacency to an established residential
Neighborhood. Consequent, this subarea has been designated for residential development o take
advantage of its access along the Chicago River and its adjacency to a stable residential
‘eighbornood.

‘35TH ANO ASHLANO SUBAREA

‘The 35in and Ashland subarea is bounded by 33rd Street on the north, the Chicago River on the
‘east, 35th Street on the south, and Ashland Avenue on the west (Map 3). The predominant land
ses within this subarea have always been industrial, and inciuded warehouse, tucking, and other
Industrial-oriented uses. Current, this subarea is characterized by vacant and underutitzed
‘ropertes, and incompatible residential development on a limited scale.

‘While this subarea exhibits certain bighting characteristics, it has the potential for large-scale
redevelopment. wih the assistance of public improvements cr incentives. Given ts intemal land use
‘pattems and its adjacency to other industial subareas, tis subarea has been designated for
Industral uses.

‘37TH AND IRON SUBAREA

“The 37th and Iron subarea is bounded by 35th Street on the nortn, the Chicago River on the east,
Pershing Road on the south, and Ashland Avenue on the west (Map 3). This subarea was part of
the Original East Distict of the Central Manutacturing District development, and has consistently
accommodated industial Uses, Current, this subarea is characterized by inadequate infrastructure
in some portons; scatored multistory, old industnal buldings unsuitable for modem industral uses;
‘and scattered vacant land. Given that this subarea i sil well suited fr industrial development. it

Loun/Scrnerir& Associa, peg
= = oe

pe

[ Benson Park {ndusiral Residential |
Vacant Land |
35th ang Ashiand Industrial Industral |
37th and lon Industrial Indust |
Pershing Road tndustial Maed-Use- }
Institutional |

Hausrep Srmezr SUBAREA

‘The Halsted Street subarea is bounded by 31st Street on the north, the alley between Halsted Steet
‘and Emerald Avenue on the east, 37th Street on the south, and the alley between Haisted and
Green Streets and on the west (Map 2). itis designated prmanly for convenience-type commercial
‘and upper floor residental uses whichis a continuation ofthe existing dominant land uses.

“This subarea is characterized by vacant storetrons, scattered vacant buildings and parcels, small
lots, imited off-street parking, and the ack of commercial continuity among the ground floor uses.
‘Additionally, the volume and speed of trafic along Halsted Street impacts a shopper's ability to
‘easily cross the street. With the advent of nearby shopping malls, this neighborhood commercial
dlstct has decined and its geographic area has decreased. To achieve successful redevelopment,
improvement of the subarea is necessary.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions
: Encourage the development of convenience-type commercial uses along Halsted
‘Street by promoting he characteristics ofthis neighborhood shopping dst that
are woll suited to such development.
: Encourage the development of lva/work space along Halsted Street by
promoting the shopping district's abundance of structures offerng ground floor
‘commercial and upper floor residential space.

. Improve the continuity of ground foor uses and the convenience of shoppers by
‘encouraging the consolidation of commercial activites wit a compact area.

. FFacitate the unificaton of signage along the commercial corer.

: Improve the safety and security of shoppers and resents along the commercial
comdor.

Louw/Senneider Associate. ne. $$
-_ = oS

=

Cry of creage
“Semaeg Radovelcomen Par

‘Specie Redevelopment Objectives: Publc Improvements and incentives

: Faciitate the development of a long-term program to market and promote the
‘Commercial area to smaller, independent commercial establishments

: Faciitate the assembly of vacant land and underutilized properties to create
redevelopment sites for commercial users.

. Umit ground floor activites to commercial uses and upper floor activites to
residential uses through appropriate governmental tools.

. Provide a mechanism to faciltate the redevelopment of existng structures for
‘ground floor commercial and upper floor residential uses.

. Create financing programs that encourage the rehabiltation andior reuse of
‘vacant buildings.

. Facilitate safer pedestrian crossings and accessibility to both sides of Halsted
‘Street through sidewalk and other physical improvements within the right-of-way.

. Redesign the Halsted Street right-of-way to accommodate strestscaping
amenities.

. Install appropriate streetscaping amenities to enhance and unity the shopping
aistnct,

: Use existing public programs to facilitate the rehabilttion of facades and
improve commercial signage.

: Identity all possible methods and available opportunities to increase consumer
_and employee parking winin the shopping dst, and facitat te development
‘of acttonal parking (Le. shared lots between different users, angle parking on
‘side streets win wide ights-f-way, new parting areas).

MORGAN STREET SUBAREA

‘The Morgan Street subarea includes all propery fronting on Morgan Steet between 31st Street on
the north and 35th Street on the soum, and all property fronting the south side of 35th Steet
between Morgan Steet on the west and the alley between Lituanica Avenue and Halsted Street on
the east (Map 2). It's designated for residential development, promoting the area's changeover
from commercial uses.

Lowi/Sermaiger& Assoctes, eg
Cry o cicago
+ [IswasTeG - Recmtopman Pan

‘Along Morgan Street, this subarea is characterized by scattered vacant buildings, and aging
infrastructure. Additionally, te use of Morgan Street as a vehicular bypass to the Halsted Street
Commercial area results in high speed through trafic hat presents a confict with residental uses.
‘The 35th Street portion ofthis subarea is characterized by incompatble uses with residential and
Industral land uses bed together. To facitate he redevelopment of the Morgan Street subarea
as residential, certain improvements are necessary.

‘Speciic Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions
. ‘Support residential redevelopment of commercial land uses, where appropriate.
. Encourage the retention of the strong, compatible commercial uses existing
along Morgan Street by promoting ther presence as amenities to existing and

‘new residents.

. Encourage the rehablitaton of existing structures, and the development of
‘esting vacant los, for residential uses.

a 2 &

Create a pysical environment that is conducive to residential development.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Public Improvements and Incentives

. FFacitate the assembty of vacant land and underutilized properties for residential
redevelopment,

. Create a financing program that encourages the rehabiltation andlor reuse of
‘vacant and underutlized buildings.

. Increase the sidewalk area of the Morgan Street right-o-way to accommodate
‘streetscaping such as pedestian-scaleighting and appropriate vegetation, and
to reduce the speed and volume of trafic.

. Encourage the preservation of the existing architectural character, and
discourage new commercial development, through the use of governmental
mechanisms.

. Encourage the continuation of multtamily residential development along 35th
Street

Lout/Schnerer & Assocates ie, 30

cnyercreage -
Stvhaised Radevlopmen Pan

‘SANGAMON STREET SUBAREA

‘The Sangamon Sweet subarea is generally bounded by 37th Place on the north, the alley between
Halsted Street and Emerald Avenue on the east, Pershing Road on the south, and Morgan Street
‘on the west: and includes the propertes fronting on Halsted Street between 37th Street and 371%
Place as well as th propertes fronting on the east side of Morgan Street trom the alley betwo
‘35th Street and 35th Place on the norfn and 37th Place on the south (Map 2). Most ofthis subarea
{s included within the Stockyards Industrial Comdor. Redevelopment is anticipated to be targeted
toward industral-suppor uses. consistent with existing development and the policy
recommendations presented in the Cty’s Corio of Industrial Opportunity: Plan for Industry in
(Chicago's South Side; taking into account the dramatic change in land uses from commercial and
residental on the north to heavy industrial on the south,

‘Development within the Sangamon Steet subarea generally has been light industrial in nature with
‘uses supporong the heavy industrial activites located in the surrounding area. This subarea has
ong been a transition zone butlering the commercial and residential areas on the north and east
from the heavy industrial uses on the south and west. It is anticipated that the successful
‘edevelopment of his subarea wil occu elave to the successful redevelopment ofthe surtounding
heavy industrial areas. The recommended pubic improvements for tis area target its
‘nattractveness and incompatibie uses.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions
. Encourage the rehabiltaton of existing structures, and the development of
vacant lots, for new industril-suppor uses or the expansion of exsting viable
industries.
. Encourage the retention of existing viable industrial uses.
. ‘Create physical evrcrment that is conducive tothe development of industrial
‘support uses.
‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Public Improvements and incentives

5 FFecitate the assembly of vacant land and underutilized properties for redevelopment
as industial-support uses.

. ‘Butler adjacent residential properties o scrwen on-site industrial activites from
‘ew development oF redevelopment.

Loun/Scrneice & Aasocute bey
<— = os

Sire riage.
SStohaiseg Rasevetooment Plan

: Encourage the screening and buttenng of outside storage uses along Halsted
‘Street using governmental tools.

. Facitate the oimination of environmental contaminants i present.

MORGAN STREET INOUSTRIAL SUBAREA

‘The Morgan Stwet industrial Subarea is bounded by 35th Street on he north, Morgan Street on the
‘east, Pershing Road on the south, and the Chicago River on the west (Map 2), and is completely
Incorporated inthe Stockyares Industnal Conder, This subarea is designated for industrial us
Consistent with existing development patterns and the policy recommendations presented in the
City's Comidors of industrial Opportunity: A Plan for Industry in Chicago’ South Sie

‘The Morgan Street subarea was part of the Original East Distt ofthe CMD development. I is
charactenzed by inadequate roadway infrastructure, a lack of identity, bullings unsuitable for
redevelopment for modern industrial uses, and the poor consition of some buldings. To actveve
‘successful redevelopment, improvement ofthis subarea is necessary.

‘Speciic Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions
. Encourage the redevelopment of underutilized and vacant parcels trough the
‘expansion of existing viable industrial uses and the constructon of new industrial
uses.
: Promote the amenites of the subarea that make it atractve for industrial
development.
‘Specie Redevelopment Objectives: Public Improvements and Incentives

: Faciftate the assembly of vacant land and underutlized properties. for
redevelopment as industial uses.

. Faciitate the rehabilitation and expansion of existing buildings and businesses
through the use of estabished public programs and other relevant assistance.

: Establish an identtable gateway, using signage, landscaping, and other
‘mediums, in the vicinity of the key intersections. of Racine Avenue and 35th
Street, and Racine Avenue and Pershing Road, which cefines the area as &
‘cohesive industrial unit

Loui Sermeiser Associates. ne 22

ty of Crapo
BSovtiowed Resevooment Pen

. Reconstruct and remove unused railroad crossings along Racne Avenue
‘between 37th Street and Pershing Road.

. ‘Conduct a street-by-street inspection ofthe subarea o determine existing concitons,
and deveiop a Smetable for improvements,

. Improve roadways that are substandard or in poor condition.

. Install applicable steetscaping improvements throughout the subarea to help
define the area as a cohesive industrial unit and to improve its visual appeal

. Facitate the elimination of environmental contaminants if present.

[BENSON PARK SUBAREA

‘The Benson Park subarea is bounded by 31st Place, Benson Street, 33rd Street, and 34th Place
(on the north; Racine Avenue and the alley between Carpenter and Morgan Strats on the east. 35th
‘Sweet on the south: and the Chicago River on the west (Map 2), and includes more than 30 acres
of land. it as been designated for residontal uses.

‘Most of this subarea consists of vacant land in odd configurations, surrounded by piecemeal
‘residential development o the north and established residential uses fo the east. The 35th Street
‘Porton of ths subarea is characterized by vacant buldings including single-user, mutistory industrial
‘structure; scattered commercial uses; and underutlized parking lots interspersed with residential

Given the amount of existing vacant land and rvertront access, this subarea has large-scale
redevelopment potential as a new residential community. However, to failtate its successful
‘redevelopment, pubic improvements are necessary.
‘Speciic Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions

: Encourage the development ofa singlo-amily residential environment simiar in
‘scale to the surrounding residential uses.

. Promote the subarea's amenities which make it atracive for new residential
development.

Louk Schneier & Associates ne 2

iy of Creag
‘SShomaised Reaevelcomen Pian,

‘Specitic Redevelopment Objectives: Pubic Improvements and Incentives

. Facittate the assembly of vacant land and undenstiized propertes for
redevelopment as residental uses.

. Ensure that private development occurs in a planned and cohesive manner
through the use of governmental tools.

. Ensure the development of @ comprehensive roadway system within this
subarea, using governmental tools, as redevelopment occurs.

. Facittate the development of the rvertront for passive recreational uses io
‘accordance withthe Ci’ riverront design guidelines.

. Butter new residental development within this subarea from the active industrial
uses directy south of 35m Street

. Encourage the adaptive reuse of property along 35th Street within the subarea
‘hatis compatiie win bot the low-intensity residental uses tothe north and the
high-intensity industrial uses to the south

: Faciltate the remediation of the environment i contaminants are present

‘357H AND ASHLANO SUBAREA

‘The 36th and Ashland subarea is bounded by 33rd Street on the north the Chicago River on the
‘east, 35th Street on the south, and Ashiand Avenue on the west (Map 2). It is designated for
Industrial uses in keeping with existing land uses.

‘This subarea is characterized by vacant and underutlized properties, and incompatible resident
development on a limited scale. Given these characteristics, it has the potential for large-scale
redevelopment. However, to achieve its successtul redevelopment, public improvements are
necessary.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions
+ Encourage the redevelopment of underutiized and vacant property for modern industrial uses.

in order to take advantage of the area's highly visible locaton along 35th Street, Ashland
‘Avenue, and the Chicago River.

oun/Schnaier& Associates neg
Sav crcage -
‘SsivHaeeg Redevelopment Pa a

+ Promote the subarea’s amenities that make it atractve for industrial development such as its
frontage along 35th Street, Ashland Avenue, and the Chicago River.

+ Provide an environment that is conducive to modem industial development.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Public Improvements and Incentives

+ Use governmental tools to discourage new residential development, and eliminate, over time,
‘existing incompatie residential uses.

‘+ Provide a mechanism to faciltate the redevelopment of incompatible residential uses to
‘accommodate modem indusvial uses.

+ Eliminate unnecessary streets, alleys, and other rights-of-way to increase the amount of land
‘available for private investment.

+ Facilitate the assembly of vacant land and underuslized properties for redevelopment as.
industrial uses.

+ Facitate the remediation of the environment i contaminanis are present

‘+ Encourage the improvement ofthe rvetront,as redevelopment occurs over ime, in accoréance
with the Citys rvertront design guidelines.

‘+ Establish an identifiable gateway. using signage and other mediums, in the vicinity ofthe key
intersection of 35th Street and Ashland Avenue to promote the Redevelopment Project Area as
4 uniied industrial unt.

‘+ Improve the atractvaness of the 35th Steet and Ashiand Avenue frontages through the use of
‘appropriate streetscaping amenities consistent wih the treatment of the Redevelopment Project
‘Area as a whole.

+ Conduct a straet-by-street inspection of the subarea to determine existing conditions, and
develop a timetable for improvements.

‘+ Improve roadways that are substandard orn poor condition.

‘+ Insta applicable streetscaping improvements throughout the subarea to help define the area
‘38 a cohesive industrial unit and to improve ts visual appeal.
—< = a

tv of cage
"istorii Redevecomer: Pan

‘37TH ANO IRON SUBAREA
‘The 27% and ron subarea is bounded by 35th Street on the north, the Chicago River on the east,
Pershing Fload on the south, and Ashland Avenue on the west (Map 2); and is completoly
incorporated within the Stockyards indusinal Comder. tis designated fer industrial uses in keeping
with existing uses and the policy recommendations presented in the Ciy’s Corridors of Industrial
(Opportunity: A Plan for Industry in Chicago's South Side :

‘This subarea was part ofthe Original East District of the CMD development. itis characterized by
inadequate infrastructure in some portions; scattered multistory, old industrial buildings unsuitable
for modem industrial uses; and scattered vacant land. To faciltaeits successful redevelopment,
‘public improvements are necessary.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions
‘+ Encourage an environment that is conducive to modem industrial development.
‘+ Promote the subareas amenities that make itatractve for industrial development.
“+ Establish a unified, industrial identiy.

‘+ Butler unsighty areas through the use of aesthetic screening.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Public improvements and Incentives:

‘+ Establish identifable gateways, using signage and other mediums, in the vicinty of key
Intersectons such as 35m and Iron Streets to promote the Redevelopment Project Area as @
unified industrial unit

‘+ Ensure that large-scale vacant and underutlized parcels throughout the subarea are reserved
for industral uses through the use of appropriate governmental land use controls.

‘+ Improve the appearance of City-owned propery at 39th and iron.
+ Upgrade inadequate infrastructure.
+” Facitate the remediation of the environment, contaminants are present.

+ Facilitate the assembly of vacant land and underutilized properties for redevelopment as.
Industrial uses.

ows/Scoeiser& Assis ree
me

Gayot Cricago _ -
Halted « Aedewetomert Pia

+ Demolish existing buildings that are unsuitable or inleasibe for redevelopment.
+ Facilitate the rehabiltation or expansion of existing viable industries.

+ Conduct a street-by-street inspection of the subarea to determine existing concitions, and
develop a timetable for improvements.

‘+ Restict parallel parking where @ interferes with loading docks on 37% Street between Ashland
‘Avenue and Iron Street.

‘+ Improve roadways that are substandard or in poor condition.

tll applicable streetscaping improvements throughout the subarea to help define the area,
{38 a cohesive industrial unit and to improve its visual appeal.

PERSHING ROAD SUBAREA

‘The Porshing Road subarea is bounded by Pershing Road on the north, private property on the
‘south, the vacated channel ofthe Chicago River on the south, and private property on the west (Map
2), and is completely incorporated within the Stockyards Industral Corridor. Iti designated for
‘mixad-uses which is acceptable in designated industrial comdors, in imsted circumstances, under
the City’s Comidors of Industrial Opportunity: Plan for Industry in Chicago's South Sige. In
keeping with the Comidors of Opportunity plan, the development of industrial and compatible maxed
uses willbe undertaken through the planned development process.

‘This subarea was the ste of the Pershing Road District of the CMD. Itis characterized by several
vacant, mutistory ld industrial buidings which may be unsuitable for modem industrial uses, and
‘lacks parking. While this area has redevelopment potental glven the amount of axistng vacant
‘and underutiized property itis not easily developable due to he costs associated wih renabiltating
(oF demokshing the structures. To facitate its redevelopment, certain public improvements may be
necessary.

‘Specie Redevelopment Objectives: Private Actions

‘+ Promote the amenities ofthis subarea that make it atractve for new users such as accessibility
to the regional highway system, frontage on Pershing Road, the view of McKinley Park, and the
‘surrounding employment base.

‘Specific Redevelopment Objectives: Public improvements and Incentves

Loub/Senmeider& Associats nee
— = 3

a

yo cncago
‘SShonaiswed™ Redeveopment Pan

+ Facilitate the undertaking of a combination marketieasiblity study to determine whether a
‘market exists forthe reuse of existing structures, and to identity the feasinilty of rehabilitating
some or all of the existing structures andior redeveloping the site

+ Demotsh buildings tat have environmental problems.

+ Explore what other cies are doing wth similar mulistory industrial space.

+ Improve access to the site

+ Facitate the remediation ofthe environment, ifcontaminants are present.

+ Explore public incentives to facitate he rehabilitation of structures (..,fexibilty on building
code interpretatons)

‘+ Facilitate the rehabiltation of existing structures or the redevelopment of he site, determined
tobe fasibie,

. Desicn Crrrenia

‘To create a unified redevelopment project with an identifiable image, design crteria are incorporated

Into tis Redevelopment Pian. They address such elements as te relationship of new development

to existing development, landscaping, steetscaping, open space, site design, of-sireet parking,

signage, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, and more. Implementation of the design cxitria wil

‘occur at the time that specific redevelopment projects are undertaken.

‘The design enteria for the Redevelopment Project Area are as follows:

(OVERALL REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

‘+ Encourage the implementaton of new development, and the expansion or renovation of exsting
‘uses, through the planned development process where appropriate.

+ Ensure that new development and redevelopment actives are physically and visually intograted
with adjacent uses and amenities.

‘+ Estabish and execute specific design criteria in accordance wih this Redevelopment Plan as
redevelopment projects are undertaken,

LounSchneider & Associates Ie

iy ot crcago .
‘35tuMalsig* Regovelopmen Pan

hhas been designated for industria) uses. It's envisioned that this subarea willbe transformed into
‘a modem industrial park.

PeRsninc ROAD SUBAREA .
‘The Pershing Road subarea is bounded by Pershing Road on the north, private property on the
‘south, the vacated channel ofthe Chicago River onthe south, and private property on the west (Map
3). This subarea was the site of the Pershing Road District of the CMD, and has always been
Industrial in nature. Current, this subarea is characterized by several vacant, mulistory old
industrial buiings which may be unsutable for modem industrial uses, and it lacks parking. While
this area has redevelopment potential given the amount of existing vacant and underutlized
property itis not easily developable due tothe costs associated with rehabilitating or demolishing
the structures. its chances of being developed for new industrial uses are unknown without further
study. Consequenty, this subarea has been designated for industrial and compatbie mixed-uses.

NEDEVELOPMENT PLAN ANO PROJECT STRATEGIES BY SUBAREA

For planning and programming purposes, the Redevelopment Project Area is divided into subareas
based on the simianty and the character of the exising andior proposed land uses and
evelopment activites. For each subarea, speciic redevelopment cbjectves addressing private
‘actions and public improvements have been identiied. Implementation ofthe Redevelopment Pian
and Project wil be undertaken on a phased basis.

Within the Redevelopment Project Area, there are eight distinct subareas, each characterized by
a predominant type of and use. The folowing table summarizes the subareas by the existing and
proposed primary land uses.

‘SUBAREA EXISTING PRIMARY | PROPOSED PRIMARY
LAND USES. LAND USES
Halsted Street Ground Floor Commercial | Ground Floor Commercial
Upper Floor Residential | Upper Floor Residential
‘Morgan Street Residential Resiental
Commercial Umited Commercial
‘Sangamon Steet Industrial Industrial
Morgan Street industrial | industrial Industrial

LowmiSemeicers Associates ney
4

ity of creage
BStvnaiaedReseresomen Pan. =

+ Encourage architectural and site design that addresses the exterior appearance of buildings,
setbacks, loading areas, of-street parking, buiiing coverage, bulking height, buidin
Crientation and placement. plating, screening of outdoor storage areas, and other sie issu

‘+ Encourage the vacation of unnecessary streets, alleys, and other rights-of-way to increase the
_amount of property available for prvate investment.

‘+ Improve the main arterial leading to the Redevelopment Project Area in order to efficiently
‘accommodate automobile and truck traffic traveling to and trom the site.

‘+ Insta upgraded or new usities in an aesthetically pleasing manner as redevelopment occurs.

+ Ensure the adequate separation of vehicular and pedestrian trac along the roadways adjacent
to and throughout the Redevelopment Project Area.

‘+ Require of-street parking for new developments and the expansion or renovation of existing

‘+ Ensure that off-street parking is appropriately screened, landscaped. and surfaced

+ Encourage the development of public and/or private open space within the Redevelopment
Project Area.

+ Encourage the addition of special features within the Redevelopment Project Area, where
‘appropriate, such as public at, plazas, etc. to increase the area's atvactveness and desirability
‘35 a place to locate.

‘+ Establish a coordinated and consistent landscaping / steetscaping theme along the public
rights-of-way throughout the Redevelopment Project Area to foster a cohesive and unified
environment appropriate tothe primary land uses within each subarea.

‘+ Ensure the adequate maintenance of public and private landscaping, focal points, and open
spaces.

‘+ Ensure the adequate and attractive screening, or restricton, of outdoor storage areas,
‘+ Ensure that security fencing is attractive and aesthetical pleasing.
+ Encourage the orientation of budings on lots fronting high vsibty transportation routes toward

rather than away from the roadway and ensure that such development is atractvely designed
and landscaped to favorably promote the Redevelopment Project Area.

Louk/Sctmeider Associate, ne Fy

amy

4
r |

iy of cneoge, . -
“sh haisied- Reaevetoomert Pa

+ Require planned development process for the implementation of new, large-scale residential
evelopments.

+ Presene ine character of enising residential nighbomoods inthe residentially oferted
subareas as new development and redevelopment occurs.

‘+ Ensure that new residential development is compatible with adjacent existing residential uses
in terms of building and site design, landscaping, architectural syle, building materials, and
‘other applicable factors.

+ Establish specific design guidelines addressing building desig, fencing, screening, landscaping,
signage, setbacks, lot size, yards, and other appicable items as new residential development
‘occurs.

CommencaL,

+ Encourage consistency and uniformity in the design, scale, size, and placement of exterior
‘commercial signage.

‘+ Create an identifiable image for commercial areas through the use of signage and uniied
stroetscaping elements,

+ Ensure that commercial areas are welhighted, including pedestian-scale lighting, for the safety
of shoppers and pedestrians.

+ Ensure that new and existing parking areas are wol-designed, welHighted, identifiable, and
easily accessed.

+ Preserve the character of existing, viable commercial districts as new development and
redevelopment occurs.

‘+ Ensure that new commercial developments compatie with adjacent uses in terms of builsing
‘and site design, landscaping, archtectural siies, building materials, and other applicable
factors.

‘+ Establish specific design guidelines addressing bulking design, building massing, fencing,

screening, landscaping, signage, setbacks, ft size, and otter applicable tems as new
commercial development and redevelopment occurs.

Loum Schneider & Associates. ne 40

ee mm es es _

Gayot Cncage
‘SsbsMasig Redevecpment Plan

InousTRIL,

‘+ Establish a campus-ike industrial park setting for the industial subareas within the
Regevelopment Project Area

+ Craate a unique an consistent focal point using signage, landscaping, or other mediums at the
‘major access points into the industrial subareas that dently the subareas as cohesive industrial
ark areas. -

+ Discourage unrelated trate traveling through the industial subareas and provide a secure
environment By limiting the access points into such industrial subareas.

‘+ Improve existing roadways and design new roadways to the standards required by modern
industrial development and truck trafic, including ruck lengths and weights.

+ Remove the circulation impediments throughout the Redevelopment Project Area such as
inadequate turning radi at key intersections and low viaducts.

+ Establish consistent and understandable locational signage throughout the industrial subareas
te reduce contusion and vatfic problems.

+ Encourage the orientation of buidings on lots fronting residential areas away rather than toward
the residential uses, and ensure thatthe residental areas are adequately protected trom the
Industral uses through screening, butlering, and site design.

+ Locate higher intensity and high trafic uses away trom adjacent residental areas,

MoxeD-Use

+ Require the implementation of mixed-use developments through the planned development
process.

‘+ Ensure that each separate land use is designed and positoned so as to accomplish its
‘maximum potential in the mixed environment.

‘+ Promote the combination of mixed-uses so that they perform as a whole and benefit from their
proximity to each other.

“+ Ensure the provision of efficienty functioning infrastructure capable of servicing the difering
‘domands of the mixed-uses.

Lowi/Semeicer Associate. ne. “1

iy 6 Cneape

3

Stvaited Recevecpment Plan

Encourage the provision of sasy and etfecive pedestrian access troughout the mixed
‘environment in addon tothe surrounding area.

Ensure that the creation of a harmonious, cohesive, and integrated development resuits trom
the mixture of uses.

Ensure that mixed-use developments are compatible with the surroundirg land uses, and fit in
‘with the existing urban fabric.

Encourage consistency and undormity in he design, scale, size, and placement ot locational and
<irectonal signage.

Encourage the creation of an identfable image for mixed-use developments through the use
‘of signage and unified streetscaping elements.

Establish specific design guidelines as new development and redevelopment occurs.

D. EsTmaTED REDEVELOPMEKT PROJECT ACTIVES AND COSTS

‘The City proposes to realize its goals and objectives of redevelopment through pubic finance

techniques, nciucing but not imited to tax increment francing, and by undertaking cortann acti

‘and incurring certain costs. Such activites may include some or all of the folowing:

1

|. ASSEMBLAGE OF SiTES. To achiove the renewal ofthe Redevelopment Project Area. the City
‘of Chicago is authorized to acquire property identified in Map 4 - Property Authorized To Be
‘Acquired atached hereto and made a part Nerect. and clear property ofall improvements, i
‘any, and either (a) sell, lease or convey for private redevelopment or (b) sel, lease or
dedicate for constructon of public improvements or facies. The City pay for a private
developer's cost of acquisiton of land and other propery, real oF personal, oF rights of
intarests therein, demolition of buildings, and the cisaring and grading of land. The City may
determine that to meet the renewal objectives of his Redevelopment Plan and Project. other
properties in the Redevelopment Project Area not scheduled for acquisition should be
‘acquired or certain property currenty listed for acquisiton should not be acquired. Acquistion
Cf land for puble ights-o-way wil also be necessary forthe portions of said rights-of-way that
the City does not own.

‘As a necessary part of the redevelopment process, the City may hold and secure property
which it has acquired and place it in temporary use untl such propery is scheduled for
‘disposition and redevelopment. Such uses may include, but are not limited to, project ofice
{aclties, parking or other uses the Clty may deem appropriate,

LounrScomeier& Asscste, ne we

<= es

Stet Greage, .

‘Sshotisid” Redevelopment Pan

2

4

PROVISION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND FACILTIES. Adequate public improvements and
faciities may be provided to service the entire Redevelopment Project Area. Public
improvements and facities may include, but are not imted t:

Provision for streets and pubic rights-ot-ways

. Provision of utlites necessary to serve the redevelopment

© Public landscaping

4. Public landscaperbutter improvemants, street lighting and general beauttication
improvements in connection with public improvements

Public open space

PROVISION FOR SOM AND SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Funds may be made avaiable for
improvements to properties fr the purpose of making land sutable for development. These
Improvements may include, but are not imited to:

|. Emvtronmental remediation necessary for redevelopment of the Redevelopment
Project Area

. Site Preparation - Utites

© Demoliton

Investigations

‘Jon Trainin AND RELATED EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS. Funds may be made available for
programs to be created for employees so that they may take advantage of the employment
‘opportunities in the Redevelopment Project Area.

‘Avauysts, ADMNESTRATION, STUDIES, LEGAL, ET AL. Funds may be provided for activities
including he long-term management o the Redevelopment Plan and Project as wal as the
‘costs of establishing the program and designing ts components. Costs of studies, surveys,
development of plans, and specifications, implementation and administraton of the
redevelopment plan, including but not limited to stat! and professional service costs for
architectural, engineering, legal, markating, financial, planning or other services, provided,
‘however, that no charges for professional services may be based on a percentage ofthe tax
‘increment collected.

Inrenest Sussioes. Funds may be provided to developers or usar fora portion of interest
costs incurred in the construction of a redevelopment project. Intarest costs incurred by
redeveloper related to the construction, renovation or rehabittation of a redevelopment
project may be provided that:

‘a. such costs are tobe paid directly trom the special tax alocaion fund established
pursuant to the Act

1b such payments in any one year may not exceed 30 percent ofthe annual interest costs
Incurred by the redeveloper with regard tothe redevelopment project uring that year:

Lows Semeer & Associate, ne “

a

2 ame om.

“stented” Recersooment Par

. if there are not sufficient funds available in the special tax allocation fund to make the
Payment pursuant to this paragraph (6) hen the amount so due shall accrue and
payable when sufficient funds are availabe inthe special tax allocation fund: ang

4. the total of such interest payments paid pursuant to the Act may not exceed 30 percent
‘ofthe total of () costs paid or incurred by the redeveioper forthe redevelopment project
‘lus (@) redevelopment project costs exctuding any property assembly costs and any
relocation costs incurred by a municipality pursuant to the ACt.

7. REMABILTATION COSTS. The costs for rehabiltation, reconstruction or repair or remodeling

‘of existing public oF private buildings or fitures including, but not limited to, provision of
facade improvements for the purpose of improving the facades of privately held properties
‘may be funded.

8. Prowsion Fon RELOCATION Costs. Funds may be made available for the relocation

‘expenses of public facies and for private property owners and tenants of properties
‘relocated or acquired by the City for redevelopment purposes.

8. Fmancna Costs. Financing costs. inciuding but not imted ball necessary and incisental

‘expenses related to the issuance of obligations and which may include payment of interest
(on any obligations issued hereunder accruing during the estimated period of construction
cf any redevelopment project for which such obligations are issued and for not exceeding
36 months thereatter and inciuding reasonable reserves related thereto may be funded.

10. Capra. Costs. All or a portion of a taxing districts capital costs resulting from the

‘redevelopment project necessary incurred ort be incured in furtherance of the objectives
cf te Redevelopment Plan and Project. othe extent the municipalty by writen agreement
‘accepts and approves such costs.

11, Parent m Ly oF taxes,

12 Costs oF Jon TRABuNna. Funds may be provided for costs of Job training, advanced

vocational education or career education, inciuding but not limited to courses in
‘occupational, semi-technical or technical fields leading drecty to employment, incurred by
‘one or more tang districts, provided that such cosss ) are related to the establishment and
‘maintenance of aditional job training, advanced vocational education ar career education
programs for persons employed or to be employed by employers located in a redevelopment
Droject area: and (i) when incurred by a taxng district or taxing districts other than the

‘are set forth in a written agreement by or among the municpalty and the taxing
‘istrict or taxing districts, which agreement describes the program to be undertaken,
inclucing but not limited to the number of employees to be trained, a description ct the
training and services to be provided, the number and type of positions availabe or to be
available, tomized costs of the program and sources of funds to pay for the same, and the
term of the agreement. Such costs ncude, speccally the payment by community colege

Louk/Schnaer& Assocates, ie

— ee ae

|

‘dstrcts of costs pursuant 1 Sections 3-37, 3-38, 3-40 and 3-40.1 of the Public Community
College Act and by school cistricts of costs pursuant o Sections 10-22.20a and 10-23.3a
(of The Schoo! Code,

19, REDEVELOPMENT AaREEUENTS. The City may enter into redevelopment agreements with
private developers which may include, but not be imited to, terms of sale, lease of
‘conveyance of land, requirements for ste improvements, pubic improvements, jo traning
‘and interest subsidies. In the event that the City determines that construction of certain
improvements is not financially feasibie, the City may reduce the scope of the proposed
Improvements.

‘To undertake these actives, redevelopment project costs wil be incurred. Redevelopment project
‘costs mean the sum total of al reasonable or necessary costs incurred or estimated to be incurred,
‘and any such costs incidental o tis Redevelopment Plan and Project pursuant to the Act.

‘The estimated redevelopment project costs are shown in Table 1. To the extent that municipal
‘obligations have been issued to pay for such redevelopment project costs incurred prior to, but in
anticipation of, the adoption of tax increment financing, the City shall be reimbursed for such
redevelopment project costs. The total Redevelopment Project costs provide an upper limit on
expenditures (exclusive of capitalized interest, issuance costs, interest and other financing costs).
Within thi imi, adjustments may be made in ine tems without amendment to this Redevelopment
Plan and Project. The costs represent estimated amounts and do not represent actual City
commitments or expenditures. Additional funding inthe form of State and Federal grants, and
private developer contributions willbe pursued by the City as a means of financing improvements
and facilites which are of a general community benef.

Table 1 Estimated Redevelopment Project Costs represent those eigble project costs ofthe Act.
‘These upper limit expencitures are potent costs tobe expended over the maximum 23-yea ite
of the Redevelopment Project Area. These funds are subject to the amount of projects and TIF
fevenues generated and the Citys wilingness to fund proposed projects on a project by project
bass.

LowmiSetnender& Associates, ine
a

iat Ceago. .
Ssrnaised Redeveioomen Pan.

TOTAL REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT COSTS* $55,000,000"

“Exclusive of capitalized interest, issuance costs and other financing costs

(1). Allcosts are 1996 dotar. In acon tothe above stated costs, each issue of bonds ised to finance
& phase othe project may nciude an amour of proceeds sufcant to pay customary and reasonable charges
‘associated wit he issuance of such obigatons. Adjustments tothe estimated line tem costs above are
‘expected. Each inevdual proect cost wil be reevalualog in ight of projected prvate development and
resuing incremental tax revenues as is considered for pubic franc under the provisions ofthe Ac. The
{otal of ine tems set forth above are not intended to place a tla rt onthe described expenditures.
Agjusiments may be made in ine itera witin the total, ether increasing or decreasing ine em coss for
redevelopment costs. All captazed interest estimates are in 1996 dolars and ncluce curent market rates.

(2). Adjusemerts to these cost kama may be made wehout amensment to the Redevelopment Plan. Also
‘hese costs are estates and donot represent actual City of Chicago commitments or excenditures. They
are 8 lac ceiling amounts of posable ecenctures of TF funds proposed the Redevelopment Project Area.
‘The Total Estimated Costs Amount summary does not include private redevelopment cos.

LewiSemeicer& Associates Ie,

ae

ity of Creag
_Sstumaeeg- Recerca Pra

E, SOURCES OF Funos To Par REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS

Funds necessary 10 pay for redevelopment project costs are to be derived principally trom tax
Increment revenues, proceeds of municipal obligations which are secured principally by tax
increment revenues and/or possible tax increment revenues from the adjacent TIF Distncis. There
‘may be other sources of funds which the City may elect to use to pay for Redevelopment Project
‘costs or cbigatons issued, the proceeds of which will be used to pay for such costs, incuding but
‘not imited to state and federal grants and land disposition proceeds generated from the district.

‘The tax increment revenue which may be used to secure municipal obigations or pay for eligible
Redevelopment Project costs shall be the incremental real property tax revenue. Incremental real
property tax revenue is attrbutable to the increase in the current equalized assessed value of each
taxable ft block, tract or parcel of real property in ie Redevelopment Project Area over and above
the initial equalized assessed value of each such property in the Redevelopment Project Area,
‘Without the use of such tax incremental revenues, the Redevelopment Project Area would not
reasonably be anticipated to be developed.

‘The Stockyards Southeast Quadrant TIF District and the Stockyards Commercialindustrial TIF
District and the proposed Stockyards Annex Redevelopment Project Area and the proposed
‘38tvHalsted Study Area are all contiguous to one another, and the City finds the goals, objectives:
and financial success of such redevelopment project areas to De interdependent. The City further
finds that ti in the best interests ofthe City and in furtherance of the purposes of the Act that net
revenues trom each such redevelopment project are mace avaliable to suppor the other. The City
thorelore proposes to utlize net incremental revenues received trom one redevelopment project
‘area to pay eligible redevelopment project costs, or obligations issued to pay such costs, inthe otter
redevelopment project areas, and vice versa. The amount of revenue from the Redevelopment
Project Area made availble to support such contiguous redevelopment project areas, when added
to all amounts used to pay ebgbie redevelopment projects costs winin the ledevelopment Project
‘Area, shall not at any time exceed the total Redevelopment Eligible Project Costs described on
Table 1 (unless otherwise amended).

IssuaNce OF OBuicariONs

To finance Redevelopment Project costs a municipality may issue general obligation bonds or
‘bigations secured by the antcipated tax increment revenue generated within the Redevelopment
Project Area or the City may permit the uslzaton of uarantees. deposits and other forms of secunty
‘mage availabe by private sector developers to secure such obligations. In addition, a municipality
may pledge toward payment of such obligations any part or any combination of the following: (a)
et revenues ofall or part of any redevelopment project (b) taxws levied and collected on any or al
property in the municipality: (c) the full ain and credit ofthe municipality; (d) a morigage on part or
all of the Redevelopment Project Aroa: or (e) any other taxes or anticipated receipts that the
‘municipality may lawl pledge.

Loun/Scnnatior & Associates, nea
= aS

‘ery orcricape
‘3Sivtased Raceelopman Pan

‘Al obligations issued by the City pursuant to this Redevelopment Plan and the Act shall be retred
within 23 years (by the year 2019) trom the adoption ofthe ordinance approving the Redevelopment
Project Area. Also, the final matunty dae of any such obligations which are issued may not be later
than 20 years from their respective dates of issue. One or more series of obligations may be sold
‘atone or more tmes in order to implement tis Redevelopment Pian. The amounts payable in any
{yar as principal and interest on all obligations issued by the City pursuant o the Redevelopment
Pian and the Act shall not exceed the amounts available, or projected tobe avaiable, from tax
Jncrement revenues and from such bond sinking funds or other sources of funds (inciuding ad
‘valorem taxes) as may be provided by ordinance. Obigations may be of a party or seniorjunior lien
natures. Obligations issued maybe serial or term maturities, and may or may not be subject to
‘mandatory, sinking fund, or optional redemptions.

‘Tax increment revenues shall be used for the scheduled and/or early retirement of obligations. and
for reserves, bond sinking funds and redevelopment project costs. and, to te extent that real
property tax increment is not used for such purposes, shall be dectared surplus and shall ten
‘become available for distribution annually to taxing districts in te Redevelopment Project Area in
the manner provided by the Act.

F, Most Recent EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION OF PROPERTIES IN THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
‘Anta

‘The total 1995 equalized assessed valuation for the entre Redevelopment Project Area is
‘$80,765,158 (Table 2). After vericaton by the County Clerk of Cook County this amount wil serve
‘35 the “Inial Equalized Assessed Valuation”

G. AxmcipareD EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUATION

By the year 2019 when itis estmated that development will be completed and fully assessed. the
‘estimated equalzed assessed valuation of real property within the Redevelopment Project Area is.
‘estimated at between 110,000,000 and $130,000.000. These estimates are based on several key
‘assumptions, including: 1) all industial redevelopment will be completed in 2018; 2) the market
Value of the anticipated developments wil increase folowing compiation ofthe redevelopment ac-
LUvties described in the Redevelopment Plan and Project. 3) the most recent State Multiplier of
2.1243 as applied to 1998 assessed values wil remain unchanged 4) for he duration ofthe project,
‘he tax rate forthe entre Redevelopment Project Area is assumed to be the same and wil remain
unchanged from the 1995 level; and 5) growth from reassessments of esting properties at rate
‘of 2.0% per year wit a reassessment every tree years.

Loww/Sehmesser & Assocs, “

_— 2 oe

iy of Cneage
“Shvsistes"Reseelcoment Pa,

Hi. Lack oF GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT THROUGH INVESTWENT BY PRIVATE ENTERPRISE

|AS described in the Blighted Area Condtions Section of this Redevelopment Plan and Project
FRepor, the Redevelopment Project Ares as a whole is adversely impacted by the presence of
‘humerous factors, and these factors are reasonabiy distributed throughout the Redevelopment
Project Area. The Redevelopment Project Area on the whole has not been subject to growth and
<development through investment by private enterprise. The lack of prvate investment is evidenced
by continued existence of the factors referenced above and the lack of new development projects
intiated or completed witin the Redevelopment Project Area.

“The lack of growth and investment by the private sector is supported by the trend inthe equalized
assessed valuaton “EAV of allie property in the Redevelopment Project Area fom of 1981-1995,

‘The EAV for the Redevelopment Project Area in 1996 and 1991 were $80,765,158 and $69,766,598
respectively. The EAV increase from 1991 to 1995 represents a 15.76% increase or 3.64% per
yeat. This Redevelopment Project Area is comprised prmariy of industrial uses along with a
Substantial number of commercal uses and a imited number of mixed commercial residental uses
which are assessed as commercial propery. The EAV for commercial and industial propery in te
City of Chicago increased trom $7,875.81 1,000 in 1964 to $16,299,088,000 in 1994 or 104.72% or
10.47% per year. It also appears that the largest increase in EAV for individual properties came
from properties which were Sold and which remain in the same conaition as prio to their sale.

‘A review of the building permit requests from the City of Chicago Department of Buildings for the
'518 acre Study Area found 42 permis for new constuctonimprovements were issued in the last
5S years totaling $2,518,622 (see Exhbt 5 - Builling Permt Requests - New
Constructorvimprovements). Of the 42 permits, eight permits representing six buisings totaled
$1,946,964

Itis lear trom the study ofthis area that prvate investment in revialization and redevelopment has
‘ot occurred to overcome the Blighted Area conditions that currenty exist. The Redevelopment
Project Area is not reasonably expected to be developed without the etforts and leadership of he
City, including the adoption of his Redevelopment Plan and Project.

It is clear trom the study ofthis area tat private investment in revitalization and redevelopment has
‘ot occurred to overcame the Blighted Area conditions that curently exist. The Redevelopment
Project Area is not reasonably expected to be developed without the efforts and leadership of he
‘Gy, including the adoption of this Redevelopment Pian and Project.

Louw Schneier & Associate, ne 4

3 we kL

Cayotcocage
‘Sbvtaed Redevooomen: Pan

|. FIMANcIAL IMPACT OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Without the adoption of this Redevelopment Plan and Project, and tax increment financing, the
Redevelopment Project Area is not reasonably expected to be redeveloped by private enterprs
‘There is @ real prospect that the Blighted Area condtions will continue and are ikely to spread, and
the surrounding area will become less atactve for the maintenance and improvement of exisong
buildings and sites. The possibilty ofthe erosion of the assessed value of property which would
result from the lack of a concerted atfort by the City to simulate revitalization and redevelopment
Could lead to a reduction of realestate tax revenue to all taxing districts.

Sections A, B, & C of this Redevelopment Pian and Project describe the comprehensive
‘redevelopment program proposed to be undertaken by the City to create an environment in which
pate investment can occur. The Redevelopment Project willbe staged with various developments
{aking place over a period of years. Ifthe Redevelopment Project is success, various new private
projects will be undertaken that will assistinaleviatng the lighted Area concions, which caused
the Redevelopment Project Area to qualty as a Bighted Araa undr the Act, creating new jobs and
promoting development in the Redevelopment Project Area.

‘The Redevelopment Project is expected io have short and lng tm financial impacts on the taxing
distiets affected by the Redevelopment Plan. During te period when tax incrament fnancing is
Ublzed, rel estate lax increment revenues (rom the increases in Equa Assassed Valuaton [EAV]
Cover and above the cartfed ital EAV estabished a the tme of adoption of ths Plan and Project)
wil be used to pay eligible redevelopment project costs forthe TIF Distt. incremental revenues
wil not be avalabe to these taxing dics during this period, Al he end ofthe peed during which
the Redevelopment Project Area may exist under the Act the real estate tax revenues will be
dienes to at wang dis eying ts aps propery cated te Revlopment roet
ea.

J. Deano on Taxa DistRICT SERVICES

The following major taxing istrcts presenty levy taxes on properties located within the
Redevelopment Project Area: City of Chicago; Chicago Board of Educaton District 299; Chicago
‘School Finance Authority; Chicago Park District: Chicago Communty College District 508;
Metropolitan Water Reciamaton District of Greater Chicago; County of Cook: and Cook County
Forest Preserve District.

‘The majority of the proposed Redevelopment Project involves industrial and commercial ype
Projects.
\Nom-residental development, such as industrial, commercial, office, service, public and institutional

‘uses, should not cause increased demand for services or capital improvements on any of the taxing
isviets named above except for the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, Replacement of

Lewk/Semeider& Associate, ne, 0

Gay of Cncago
_Sstemaeg”PacoveComen Pa

‘vacant and underuiized land wih actve and more intensive uses wil result in additonal demands
(on services and facies provided by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation Distrct, City of Chicago,
‘and the City of Chicago Police and Fire Departments. However, tis expected that any increase in
‘demand for treatment of sanitary and storm sewage associated with the ledevelopment Project
‘Area can be adequately handied by exsting treatment facilites maintained and operated by the
‘Metropolitan Water Rectamation District. Adcitonaly, any adcitonal cost othe City of Chicago for
police, fre protection and sanitation seraces wil Be minimal since industnal developments wil
Privately pay for the majonty of the costs ofthese services (.e., sanitation services).

Residental development is not likely to cause increased demand for capital improvements to be
‘provided by the Community College Distret, Chicago Park Distrct, Metropolitan Water Reciamaton
District and the City of Chicago. Based on the ize of the proposed development and the existence
of several existing neighbormood parks, for exampa, itis not anticipated that the Park District will
require any new capital improvements. Itis also expected that any minor increase in demand for
treatment of sanitary and storm sewage associated with the residential development within the
Redevelopment Project Area can be adequately handled by existing treatment facilites of te
‘Metropolitan Water Reciamation District. Some additonal services may be required by the Chicago
Park District andthe City of Chicago for police and fire protecton; however, these services are not
‘expected to be significant.

Without the adoption of this Redevelopment Plan and Project, and tax increment financing, the
Redevelopment Project Area is not reasonably expected to be redeveloped by private enterprise.
‘There isa real prospect thatthe Bighted Area factors will continue to exist and spread, anc the
area as a whole wil become less attractive for the maintenance and improvement of existing
‘bukiings and sites and wal become a bighted area. The possbilty ofthe erosion ofthe assessed
‘value of property which would result trom the lack of a concerted effort by the City to stimulate
revialzation and redevelopment could lead to a reduction of real estate tax revenue to all taxing
districts.

It successtul, the implementation of the Redevelopment Project may enhance the values of
properties within and adjacent to the Redevelopment Project Area.

IK. PROGRAM TO ADORESS FINANCIAL AND SERVICE IMPACTS.

‘As descrbed in detail in prior sections of his report. the complete scale and amount of development
in te ledevelopment Project Area cannat be predicted with complete certainty at this time and the
‘demand for services provided by those taxing districts cannot be quantified at this ime.

As indicated in Section D & Table 1, Estimated Redevelopment Project Costs ofthe Redevelopment

Plan and Project, the City may provide public improvements and faciites to service the
Redevelopment Project Area. itis likely hat any potential improvements may mitigate some of the

LowwiSemaner& Ascites, ne _s

= Sa

Gao! cocage
‘SstuMatseg Redeve'opment Pan

‘adgitonal service and capital demands placed on taxing disticts as a result of the implementation
of this Redevelopment Plan and Project.

L. Prowsion FOR AMENDING ACTION PLAN

‘The Redevelopment Project Area Tax Increment Redevelopment Plan and Project may be
“amended pursuant to the provisions of the Act.

(M. APRRMATVE ACTION PLAN

‘The City is commited to and wil atfirmatively implement the following principles with respect to the
Redevelopment Project Area.

A ‘The assurance of equal opportunity in all personnel and employment actions with
respect to the Redevelopment Plan and Project, including but not limited to hing,
‘raining, vanster, promotion, discipline, ringe benefits, salary, employment working
Conditions, termination, etc... without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age,
‘handicapped status, national orign, creed, or ancestry.

8 Redeveloper will meet City of Chicago standards for participation of Minority
Business Enterprise and Woman Business Enlerprises as requred in any
Redevelopment Agreements withthe City.

c. ‘This commitment to affirmatve action and non discrimination will ensure that all

‘members of the protected groups are sought out to compate for al job openings and
‘promotional opportunites.

IN, PHASING AND SCHEDULING OF REDEVELOPMENT

‘A. phased implamentaton strategy willbe utlized to achieve a timely and orderty redevelopment
Cf the Redevelopment Project Araa. It is expected that over the 23 years of ths plan for the
Redevelopment Project Area, numerous publicprivate improvements and developments can be
‘expected to take place. The specific time frame and financial investment will be staged in a imaly
manner. Development within the Redevelopment Project Area intended to be used for industrial
Purposes wil be staged consistently with the funding and construction of infrastructure
Improvements, and private sector interest in new industrial taciites. City expenditures for
Redevelopment Project costs willbe carefuly staged on a reasonable and proportional basis 10
coincide with expenditures in redevelopment Dy privale developers. The estimated date
forcompletion of the Redevelopment Project shallbe no later than 23 years from the adoption of he
forainance of the City Council of the City approving the Redevelopment Project Arad.

Leoak/Serneicer & Associates ne Fa

au SERDOEEY B HOES

28280 2 AID

"ud weuscomsaony « passinnse

wianaday

a a oe

=

Tapet
EsmiMATED REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS:

Program Action/imarayements Sosts
Lang Acquisition $14,000,000
Site PreparatiovEnvironmental $12,000,000
Demoition’Remediation $11,000,000
Rehabiltaton $1,500,000
Public Improvements $ 12,000,000
ob Training $ 2,000,000
intrest Subsidy $ 1,200,000
Relocation Costs $1,000,000
Planning, Legal, Professional $300,000

‘TOTAL REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT COSTS" '$ 55,000,000"

“Exclusive of capitalized interest, issuance costs and other financing costs

(1), Al costs are 1996 dotars. in accion tothe above stated costs, each issue of bonds issued to finance
{phase ofthe project may nciude an amount of proceeds suffsent to pay customary and reasonable charges
associated wit the issuance of such obgations. Adjustments tothe estmaied line tem costs above are
‘expected. Each individual project cost wil be re-avaiated in ight of projected pate caveloement ang
resutng crementa tax revenues as fis considered for publ trarcing under te provsios ofthe Act. The
totais of ine tems set forth above are not intended to place a total tnt on the described expenditures
‘Adjustments may be made in ine tems witin the oil, ether increasing oF decreasing ine tem costs for
redevelopment costs. ll capitalized interes estimates are in 1996 dollars and include current market rates.

(2). Adjustments to these cost tra may be made witout amendment fo the Redevelopment Plan. Also
these costs are estates and do not represent actual iy of Chicago commitments or expandtures. They
aren fac coling amounts of possBie expenctures of TIF funds proposed nthe Redevelopment Project Area.
‘The Total Estimated Costs Amount summary does not nclude private redevelopment costs.

Lows/Senmeiter Associates. ne se

2 oe

Capet creape.
SStMaised” Redeveopment Pian.

1732 neot
172 ono
172 09009
17 tomo
17 2 to
Baines
Rie
Waa oo
vaio
petite
peste
vEmes
ato
Bares
Vateas
Wetee
Ganes
Varnieoe
vaemer
etd
etic)

Lows Semeiser& Assocutes. ne

+ SEovcted Roaonen Pan

veer is, soe
Reread Sear
Bary ise Baw
ea ise
22
Snr ie
iat ise
waa
i pamie
peciary

petiary

ian ies

a Dame
wiz ie

pera
vem
Daa
pain
waa
Basi
Daag
pecriaty
pera
pEiie
waaay we
Dagan ie
pecriatg
pecans
niin ee
Bazin
Baa is
Dama. ome
aay ee see
Denne Boe
petri ase
Daerwor warm wee
Dene ‘et ust
Daereos sa sanz
fae hte

soa sar
Seon pay
Dizeos ear Sane
pareoe fase est

ks

a

4

oubiSconacer &Assoates pea
= we es

Hane
HES
iene
VE ween
Wego
ioee

+ ar of Cnoege -
1 ‘Senhuised” Redcomen Pa

7B azeoce
Wiznore
‘ Visgwow

= es

ae

Saaasone
aaaason
Wieaser

|
|

EeBen $2223;
HeGgvEGEEEE

rast

a

UExens
Daze
Pe mers
vemos

Luk/Scnmetonr& Associate, ne
= 2

ye Chews
Ssinmaites|

came
aan
sas
53
Bran
oe
Bea
aan
aoe
aoe
oe
Be
age
aoe
nee
nae
Be
Es
Hee
Bera
aes
tase
aes
aase
aise
sass

ounSennecer & Assocs, ne

sieesee

= = =

=e &

Deeo vr ‘esas
Pe eoio Sars
SEeom soars
Teens Soo
Uewone ‘ease
DEeour ise
Wao ie ieraer
Deaow esas
Beaoie moe
Diao: reas
Beaoie Heat
Baas Bae
Diao samo see
waeeo qr Saase
Diss ‘aan
eee ia Soe
Baao st avasaot
Dasa ‘mar
aeao 13s econ
Pisa cg om

ounSonneder & Assocation, neg
=

—_ =

Pazar oot
aac oot
aaa oo
et os
iat oe
Buen
Resrety
Beare
veers
veaee
Teeter
Baer eer
Pees
Weer ee
Uewer
Paes eae
dee oot
aaa oa
ert
yazan
‘aaaaoet

LoutSchnacer& Associates. ne.

uangnzuzaencennnnngssnnnesdidllzi

et

SEEREELEE

a

a - a =

same
Sane

He
sae
fuse

Bese

HREEESESEEEE

Lowh/Schnavnr& Associ, ne

”

a a

=

Cry of Cneage, -
‘Shaaied” Racevtopment Pian

Tso oon
aan
Paso
Dawes
Wacoeees
ae

UEsvooe
aan oe
Bet
ve.
Pema
Deana
vamos
Waa

LowaScrnwce & Associates, ne

— 2

EHH

F

se
pred
ass
ass

Piaese

DEavee
waar
Bevin
pears
Beaver

Bemow
ae Ere
pueees feat
not ir
rit Sa

LounSennecer & Asscoutn, ne

ee)

oe

raamooe ssase ssa
Pease
peri)
paso
wieawon
be

pe
pe
ve,
ne
Bean
pease
Vaan
Beato
ato
Ve soo
TE sooos
soon
Basen
eiwoow
peter
Ws coor
333 tooo
1333 wooos
3733 wooo
1733 ooo
ator

Wteow
Poor
7B cea
1 tocoe

ew Serna & Assocines re
shea
sae

Sinse fase
‘mn ae
iam wae
ser raat
faa Save
ee fase
eure ae
sa Sans
or} ean

i Siase Same
sane nue
Sess ‘Boo

aS. iar Sam

| soe eae
Poe sae

peas ioe

Bane sane

H nd Piri
sons ae

ine has

Seaane ase

| seas Pr
al sees Sages
hoes Seas

see shoe

raat noe

q wae sree

3 foros irae
foe Siaoet

) sass Sea
| =a Se
tao wiser
oan ine
saa iat
sees sts
fre = iuaue
| ‘pee pod
See fees

LouteSchnager& Ascot, re. 7

_ = 2

ty of cncage

3shvmaites Receelcoment Pan

peters
Baaeoe
Dimon
7 boots
Wiamoos
Bismeon
amcor

Dame
733 30020
Biszoon
meas
ia mease
insert
iat
Baa

Basan
aaa
Dames
Baba oe
Bao
Biases
Dimon

Bom
Basan

LeuwSchnader& Assocates,

saan
Es
Frit

f

PEEREEREEEE

Seat

BOREGEEE

shoe

mas
‘sae

Bi

wae

SEESSSSTETEERE

PEPERETEEeeeeeE dt

Ze
tH

see

=

— we = 2

Gayot crcage -

‘Ssevrasted” Recelopment Pan,

pecenteg
Pao
Pian

Sumo
Baaarow
Basar
piamoe
Bas teoon
Bos tosooe

Bosieioy

Lous/Senneier& Assocs, ne.

sae

wells

ea -

_ -:

=

ay of Cncage

_3Stvrated Recewopment Pan

2206 0006
Hoos z00008
Heoestooos
Bossome
Bessoocee
bam
Poemees
dooe ovens

rom:

Sane
snot

senate
1998 Annual Report

35" and Halsted
Redevelopment Project Area

Pursuant to Mayor’s
Executive Order 97-2

JUNE 30, 1999

cay ercneage
_Sstunaisteg- Reomveconent Pan,

Exner t
[ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY SUBAREA

{AS a result of the planning efforts undertaken inthe preparation of Redevelopment Plan, an Assets
‘and Liablites statement was prepared for each of he seven Opportunity Areas. The Assets section
‘ids in clearing detinng the assets which exist while te kabilties are those items that have the
potential fo be corrected through Tax Increment Financing revenue sources. This secon is not
‘meant by no means 1 be an all encompassing statement of all the assets and labistes for each of
‘he Opportunity Areas.

WausrepSmmeer = _Assers_____tapittes
Locaton of neighborhood ~ Limited size of exising stores.
shopping cst on man areal

Presence o! few natonal chains.
Proximty to numerous

communities with disposable - Lack of large vacant sites for
‘neome redevelopment.

Proximity to a large population « Limited of-seet parking.
ase upon whch to draw
customers. Elongation of the shopping area.

Potential for redevelopment as a + Volume and speed of vehicular

cconvenience-type shopping area, traffic bisecting the shopping
cst

‘Amount of building vacancies

which may be avaliable for new + Lack of contnulty of grouno-toor

stores. ‘uses due to the intermaxing of
‘commercial and residential uses,

Establishes identity as a and vacant and.

neighborhood shopping dstnct

Character of existing suuctures,

Potental for __upper-story
residential development.

LoumSchneaer& Asscoutes ne
= = eS

Corer meaye
‘3Sevmasieg” Redevcpmen Pia

Morgan Street Assets

Liapities

+ Architectural craractar of exsong
uscings,

Changing land uses trom
Commercial to resicental.

Wide public nghtot-way available
{or streetscaping imerovements.

‘Strong residential neighbormoods

to the east and west of Morgan
Street

Assets

Use of Morgan Steet as a
vericular by-pass to the Malstes
‘Street commercial area,

Potent problems associated wih
vauted sciewaks, i present witvn
the ro-w.

+ Perception of ie area as unsate

‘Number of vacant buildings.

Ladies

Location atthe prominent
juncture of Pershing Road,
Halsted Street, and) Morgan
Steet.

Proximity to the interstate
highway system via Pershing
road.

+ Presence of exsting viable
businesses.
Potential to retain businesses

‘and stabiize the land uses win
Iited expenditure

Morgan Street Assets

Presence of businesses with a
eeining market.

Unatractveness of me area
Lack of ety

+ Presence of incompatbie land
ses.

Existonce of buldings tnat may be
unsuited o redevelopment.

Liabilities

industrial + Existence of strong businesses
that may need to expand.

+ Availabilty of land for new

Industral development as well as
redevelopment.

LownSernoaer Associates Ie

‘Cument condition of many existing
properties.

- Inadequate roadway
infrastructure.
3

Gy etcreage .
‘SSbinaiseg Recevecomen Pan

Frontage along 35th Street,
Pershing Road, and the Chicago

Lack of identty as an industrial
area,

River.
Poor creulation dung peak
ours.
+ Presence of buildings unsuitable
for rohapuitaron,
Benson Park Assots Liabiives
Exstence of age vacant parcels - Piecemeal nature of now
‘of land, with kmited ownership, residental development to the
‘that may be easly assembled for north,
development.

Frontage on the Chicago River.

‘Strong residental demand within
the area.

Surounding song residental
neightomoods.
Proximity to new residental
development.

Abily to create an entirely new
resdental erwronment.

35th and Ashland Assots

+ Large properties avaiable for
redevelopment.

+ Presence of unnecessary streets
‘which can be vacated to create
larger redevelopment parcels.

+ Proximity to the Dan Ryan
expressway.

LounSchnader & Asscoates. ne

* Potential environmental
‘contamnaben.

+ Condition of the seawals,

+ Unattracive views across the
rer.

Lisbities
+ Cost of acquiring avaiable
Properties.
Presence of a nearby recycing
faciity.

= oe

wy BL

caves
‘3sthaisteg” Reoeeicomen Pan,

7th and tron Assets wiabites
Proximity to an excalient regional Number of uilings unsuitable for
‘ransportaton network via the redevelopment,
nearby Dan Ryan expressway. . presence of numerous diapidated
‘Strong identification as an privately owned streets.
Industral area,
‘Adjacent to the Wrigley industrial ° Seattered vacant sites
properties that are well
‘maintaines and identfable,
Presence of various sites ang
buildings avaiable for
redevelopment
Presence of new streets.
Direct water and rail access.

Pershing Road Assets Liabilities
Presence of signiicant amount of - Amount of vacant _muttstory

available industnal space.
Proximity to the interstate
ighway system.

‘Adjacent to strong industrial uses
cn the northwest

‘euliSchneer& Assooatas, ne

ndustnal square footage.

+ Lack ot parking.

Cost of rehabiltation of existing
uikings.

= Cost of demolition of existing

buildings.

+ Lack of signiicant land acreage

even if demolition were
undertaken.

+ Costot maintaining sructures unt!

renaboed
= So

&

SShtcsaet Recomioneni Pan -

Exar 2
1980 SeecTeD Census Dara FOR
‘Census TaAacxs LOCATEDIN Tae SSTW/HALSTED STUDY AREA

Provided by: Chicago Area Geographic Infomation Stuay (CAGIS)
University of lines at Chicago
UIC-Dept OF Antrropology ans Geography Program
Winois Stata Data Canter: Coorinatng Agency

seo Pwcan Conte Fanon coy
Uwe r06 See Cut Penang
{eo-Seren count Psane ta

me Se

Geer ihecenae

Sooners
Secon

LounSchnader& Assoomtes ng

cokes

am

aesehd

8

2. So

iy of Creage .
“Sammaireg” Receloomer: Pin OT

nevus on we Rarer
Tomes onan Renna

Sooo is
Seveamee ‘%
Cerone nual

Fenleresancee mm

Soman te

omg Us ase

7 ao
Geaaiee Py
or se

Bre)
Heenwe ry
boone oe
Sows ca
Sse ne 4
Soa See *

LowiSchnecer&Assocares ney
= SS ee

Crervecon

gore Cann Rar & Rar Asta ty Coss Sae
(ere seamed Rama Semper Sonat
‘Aopwaa Coren ert

"Roar acces

Cxmipaey Sits
Gre Sones Pate Oxsvat & Vicar faa
‘omen Sate

‘ena ocones

‘aeenansasse
Soom sass
Frsootsaaee
Faas siaa00
Siasooesiasee :
Somes
‘Erste saa
Perera
paesem
Ssso00 8 000
Sones

Sosooesieae
Emowe sta
Sasosteae
Esoo were
Dieean

LounSchneder& Associates, ne —$ $$$ _____—_

ace

SRZISEe ES

is
ie

ea

SRSEREGBSRES
a re!

LouhiSchnecar& Assooates.

ae

kk Se

ony ercneage

"Stiri" Redevercome: Plan

ce Toad
“hmes foe

|

seine Foca

|

i
i

Not afore

‘Greater:

encore
Note ame Force

Loun/Scrnaner& Asscouies nea
Ce

oe

‘te nsec ooneatons
Stee, mca roe we oven
Fang rest ea tang oon

SIBESeEs
< 2 se

‘ony or cmeaps
‘35tunaisted-Recevelomen’ Pan

Loww/Sennader& Associates. re

feo g

ae

6

"2a Sasoney YecmASrIneT

i

==

=
a

2 ee &

ay etccage
‘iStvnasieg” Recevicement Pa

Exasrr3
1990 SeLecrED Census DATA FOR
(Census TRACKS LOCATED IN THE 3STH/HALSTED STUDY AREA

Provided by: University of tlinois at Chicago .
(Chicago Area Geographic Information Study (CAGIS)
UIC-Dept. OF Antnropology and Geography Program
IMinois State Data Center: Coordinating Agency

‘iater uote wanes

LounScnnecer& Assooates ne

4 Cy af riage -
t ‘SStvnasted” Reseelopmen Pan,

ssso001 $5999 fed
Stoooo.e sae 2
soot tae Fy
‘Steoooote szts0e bs

POVERTY SH7US W189 BY AOE

=

33

a

q x70 OF COME m 986 TO POVERTY EVEL
‘Garre Poor anor pry sa Semen
‘ino Or NCOME 1089 TO POVERTY LEVEL

LoubiScnnacer & Assocates, ee ag
ory omcage -
‘SStvhastes” Reseveloomen: Pa

nace ey sexay EuPLonenT sas

Eketonwenr soTus
‘eames Foren

ed od

Snore
netonaoer a

|

ae i:

= ec

ny or once,
‘SSiaites” Recevteomen! Pan,

se Pte aus
Bthonenr sures

Bironueer sous
Imam Pas
Chirorwort Sarvs

Eerronweot sous

Louw/Sennader& Associate. ne,

198
Ey

wa

os

fy

LouwSenesiert Assooates, ing
iy ecco
iivnaanee Resevecerer Pah,

‘S08 27 AGE BY WORK DSABLITY SHTUS BY MOBLITY AKO
Ey
nee
‘woe Ssamesy SUTUs
NGOLAY ano sel-cane vaanow sors
‘wen «maby acre en
"Smear secs aan
nowonceausi
Neti anb SeLe-cane uwraron sous
‘een neon rsa aon
NSmecny oft maaan

espusergow
MGatiorano sel-cane usermon soars
SetntSaye seen manon

aceon omer

Nontry ano Seurcane uutenon sous
Nomcouye'tarcewinnon

Fanaa
bey
Te 64 yar,
‘worn SeaLTY S=7US
Wena we ni
GOL aNd SEL CARE uMITaTON STATUS
‘ah mony sacra eaten
Semcon othe mane
mon oumiy
Copuny ao dece-cane vartaron status
‘rw moby saben eaten
Shani econ nae

(ican bsauy STUs
‘wera wen aun
SSRI ano setr-caneuatenon sous
“wma nooo tear aor
NSmcomy orsatnare nen
seven aay
SOSURY ano SeLecane varaoN STS
‘era mec 9 cary eaten
Soma orssscrs wna
Means OF TRANSPORTATON TO WORE
‘Same omar 6 uum ana ow
‘Mages OF TRANSPORTATION TO WORK
esto ore
Comoe

LounSctnaer& Assan ne

te

§

aon

2008

Ea

em

i}

‘Cay av Cheago
_0vnaisteg Resevloomen Pan,

‘Shoe’ ome ca

arene: Cones ving wns we neunnacrot
Wonca Anant

Lown Schneder& Asscoates.

83

Etrcwcce — Yoooottal

on bBdsd

Fost mo MORTGAGE ST=TUS
wn a moneeee
NSmensnyes
pew noe

SOURCE OF WATER
Shee ovo
SO0nte Or eaten

‘hc yma boa coma

Leun/Schmenier& Associates ne.

0
26

ee

“ =

‘cxyercmeape .
‘Ssnasted™ Receropmen Pn,

Exner 4
[Lagat Descripnon

‘THAT PART OF SECTION 5 AND SECTION 6, TOWNSHIP 38 NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF
‘THE THIRD PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND SECTION 32 AND SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP 39
NORTH, RANGE 14 EAST OF THE THIRO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, DESCRIBED AS

BEGINNING AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SAID SECTION 32, BEING THE
INTERSECTION OF THE CENTERLINE OF PERSHING ROAD AND THE CENTERLINE OF
‘ASHLAND AVENUE; THENCE NORTH ALONG THE WEST LINE OF SAID SECTION 32,
BEING THE CENTERLINE OF ASHLAND AVENUE TO THE CENTERLINE OF 33RD STREET,
‘THENCE EAST, ALONG THE CENTERLINE OF SAID 33RD STREET AND ITS EASTERLY
EXTENSION, TO THE WEST LINE OF THE SOUTH FORK OF THE SOUTH BRANCH OF THE
CHICAGO RIVER; THENCE NORTHWESTERLY, ALONG SAID WESTERLY LINE OF THE
SOUTH FORK OF THE SOUTH BRANCH OF THE CHICAGO RIVER TO THE WESTERLY
EXTENSION OF THE NORTH LINE OF LOT 28 IN ASSESSOR'S DIVISION OF THE
NORTHWEST QUARTER AND THE WEST HALF OF THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID
SECTION 32, RECORDED JULY 16,1857 (ANTE-FIRE); THENCE EAST, ALONG THE
‘AFOREDESCRIBED LINE AND ITS EASTERLY EXTENSION, TO THE EAST LINE OF
BENSON STREET; THENCE SOUTH AND SOUTH EAST, ALONG SAIO EAST LINE OF
BENSON STREET, TO THE NORTH LINE OF 32ND PLACE: THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID
NORTH LINE OF 32ND PLACE, TO THE EAST LINE OF TROOP STREET; THENCE SOUTH,

‘ALONG SAIO EAST LINE OF TROOP STREET, TO THE NORTH LINE OF 33RD STREET:
‘THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID NORTH LINE OF 33RD STREET, TO THE EAST LINE OF
RACINE AVENUE; THENCE SOUTH, ALONG SAID EAST LINE OF RACINE AVENUE, TO
‘THE NORTH LINE OF 34TH PLACE: THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID NORTH LINE OF 34TH
PLACE, TO THE WEST LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED BETWEEN CARPENTER STREET
AND MORGAN STREET; THENCE NORTH, ALONG SAID WEST LINE OF AN ALLEY, TO
‘THE NORTH LINE OF 32ND PLACE: THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID NORTH LINE OF 32ND
PLACE, TO THE WEST LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 117.37 FEET (MORE OR LESS)
WEST OF THE WEST LINE OF MORGAN STREET; THENCE NORTH, ALONG SAID WEST
LINE OF AN ALLEY, TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 140.25
FEET (MORE OR LESS) NORTH OF THE NORTH LINE OF 32ND PLACE, SAID POINT ALSO
BEING THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF LOT 5 IN CATHOLIC BISHOP'S SUB OF BLOCK 4
IN ASSESSOR'S DIVISION OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER AND THE WEST HALF OF
‘THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 32, RECORDED OCTOBER 25,1884, AS
DOCUMENT NUMBER 583560; THENCE EAST, ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID ALLEY,
‘ALSO BEING ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF LOTS 3 THROUGH 5 (INCLUSIVE) IN SAID
CATHOLIC BISHOP'S SUBDIVISION, TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 3:
THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 3, TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER

LounSennoder& Assooutes nea
Gayo cricago
SSiiind- Radmeaoman Fa,

‘THEREOF; THENCE WEST, ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID LOTS 3 THROUGH 5
(INCLUSIVE) IN SAID CATHOLIC BISHOP'S SUBDIVISION, ALSO BEING THE SOUTH LINE
(OF 32ND STREET, TO THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF SAID LOT 5; THENCE NORTH TO
‘THE NORTH LINE OF SAID 32ND STREET TO A POINT ON THE WEST LINE OF AN ALLEY
LOCATED 118.2 FEET (MORE OR LESS) WEST OF THE WEST LINE OF MORGAN STREET,
‘THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE WEST LINE OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE SOUTH LINE OF 31
‘ST PLACE; THENCE NORTH, TO THE NORTH LINE OF SAID 31 ST PLACE AT A POINT ON
‘THE WEST LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 11 7.25 FEET (MORE OR LESS) WEST OF THE
WEST LINE OF MORGAN STREET: THENCE NORTH, ALONG SAID WEST LINE OF AN
ALLEY, TO A POINT ON THE NORTH LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 140.25 FEET (MORE
(OR LESS) NORTH OF THE NORTH LINE OF 31ST PLACE, SAID POINT ALSO BEING THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF LOT 5 IN WILDER'S SUB OF BLOCKS 1 AND 4 OF
‘ASSESSOR'S DIVISION OF THE WEST HALF OF THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID
‘SECTION 32 RE-RECORDED OECEMBER 16,1872 AS DOCUMENT 72259; THENCE EAST,
ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID ALLEY, ALSO BEING ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF
LOTS 2 THROUGH 5 (INCLUSIVE) IN SAID WILDER'S SUBDIVISION, TO THE SOUTHEAST
CORNER OF SAID LOT 2; THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 2 AND
ITS NORTHERLY EXTENSION, TO THE CENTERLINE OF 31 ST STREET; THENCE EAST,
ALONG SAID CENTERLINE OF 31 ST STREET, TO A POINT 1262 FEET EAST OF THE
CENTERLINE OF MORGAN STREET; THENCE SOUTH, ALONG A LINE 126.2 FEET EAST
OF AND PARALLEL TO THE CENTERLINE OF MORGAN STREET, TO THE SOUTH LINE
‘OF 32ND STREET; THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID SOUTH LINE OF $2ND STREET, TO A
POINT 151.8 FEET EAST OF THE CENTERLINE OF MORGAN STREET; THENCE SOUTH,
‘ALONG A LINE 151.8 FEET EAST OF AND PARALLEL TO THE CENTERLINE OF MORGAN
‘STREET, TO THE NORTH LINE OF 33RD STREET; THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID NORTH
LINE OF 33RD STREET, TO A POINT ON THE NORTHERLY EXTENSION OF THE EAST
LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 179 FEET (MORE OR LESS) EAST OF THE CENTERLINE OF
MORGAN STREET; THENCE SOUTH, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE
NORTH LINE OF 35TH STREET; THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID NORTH LINE OF 35TH
‘STREET, TO THE WEST LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 179 FEET (MORE OR LESS) WEST
(OF THE CENTERLINE OF HALSTED STREET; THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE WEST LINE
OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE SOUTH LINE OF 33RD STREET; THENCE WEST, ALONG THE
‘SOUTH LINE OF SAID 33RD STREET, TO THE SOUTHERLY EXTENSION OF THE WEST
LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 188 FEET (MORE OR LESS) WEST OF THE CENTERLINE
‘OF HALSTED STREET; THENCE NORTH ALONG THE WEST LINE OF SAID ALLEY; TO THE
CENTERLINE OF 31 ST STREET; THENCE EAST, ALONG SAID CENTERLINE OF 31ST
‘STREET, TO THE NORTHERLY EXTENSION OF THE EAST LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED
174 FEET MORE OR LESS) EAST OF THE CENTERLINE HALSTED STREET; THENCE
‘SOUTH ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID SECTION
33, ALSO BEING THE CENTERLINE OF PERSHING ROAD; THENCE WEST, ALONG THE
‘SOUTH LINE OF SAID SECTION 33 AND THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID SECTION 32, TO THE
EAST LINE OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SAID

Lown Schneier & Associates. ne 01

aes _

Coy ot crepe.
‘SShimasied Reemtooment Par,

SECTION 5; THENCE SOUTH, ALONG THE AFORESAID EAST LINE, TO THE NORTH
RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF THE PENN CENTRAL RAILROAD MAIN RIGHT-OF-WAY: THENCE
‘SOUTHWEST, ALONG THE AFORESAID NORTH RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE, TO THE NORTH
LINE OF LOT 4 IN CIRCUIT COURT PARTITION OF THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF THE
NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 5, RECORDED APRIL 23, 1874 AS CASE NO.
(6432; THENCE WEST, NORTHWEST, AND SOUTHWEST, ALONG THE NORTHERLY LINE
‘OF SAID LOT 4, TO THE EAST LINE OF ASHLAND AVENUE: THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE
EAST LINE OF SAID ASHLAND AVENUE, TO THE INTERSECTION WITH THE EASTERLY
EXTENSION OF A LINE THAT IS 548.58 FEET SOUTH OF AND PARALLEL WITH THE
NORTH LINE OF THE NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 6; THENCE WEST,
‘ALONG THE AFOREDESCRIBED PARALLEL LINE, TO THE INTERSECTION WITH A LINE
‘THAT IS 1039.34 FEET WEST OF THE EAST LINE OF SAID SECTION 6; THENCE NORTH,

ALONG THE AFOREDESCRIBED 1039.34 FOOT LINE, 15.58 FEET; THENCE WESTERLY,
‘ALONG A LINE THAT INTERSECTS A LINE 2013.04 FEET WEST OF THE EAST LINE OF
‘SAID SECTION 6, $20.95 FEET SOUTH OF THE NORTH LINE OF SAIO NORTHEAST
(QUARTER: THENCE SOUTH, ALONG THE AFOREDESCRIBED 2013.04 FOOT LINE, 12.05
FEET; THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY, ON A CURVE, CONCAVE NORTHWESTERLY, HAVING.
‘A RADIUS OF 418.5 FEET, AN ARC DISTANCE OF 276.72 FEET, TO A POINT OF
‘TANGENCY: THENCE WESTERLY, ALONG A LINE THAT INTERSECTS THE EAST LINE OF
‘THE NORTHWEST QUARTER, 633.25 FEET SOUTH OF THE NORTH LINE OF SAID
NORTHWEST QUARTER:THENCE CONTINUING WESTERLY, ALONG THE
AFOREDESCRIBED COURSE. 306.00 FEET; THENCE NORTHERLY, 5225 FEET; THENCE
WESTERLY, 1.83 FEET; THENCE NORTHERLY, 308,00 FEET; THENCE WESTERLY, 5.00
FEET, THENCE NORTHERLY, 66.00 FEET; THENCE WESTERLY, 14.00 FEET: THENCE
NORTHERLY, TO THE INTERSECTION WITH SAID NORTH LINE OF THE NORTHWEST
QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 6, SAID LINE ALSO BEING THE CENTERLINE OF SAID
PERSHING ROAD; THENCE EASTERLY, ALONG SAID NORTH LINE OF THE NORTHWEST
AND NORTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 6, ALSO BEING THE CENTERLINE OF
PERSHING AVENUE, TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING: EXCEPTING THEREFROM THAT
PART OF THE EAST HALF OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SAID SECTION 22,
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF 37TH PLACE
AND SANGAMON STREET; THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID
‘SANGAMON STREET, TO THE NORTH LINE OF 36TH STREET; THENCE WEST, ALONG
‘SAID NORTH LINE OF 36TH STREET, TO THE EAST LINE OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 206
FEET (MORE OR LESS) WEST OF THE WEST LINE OF SAID SANGAMON STREET;

‘THENCE NORTH, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE SOUTH LINE OF AN
ALLEY LOCATED 147 FEET (MORE OR LESS) NORTH OF THE NORTH LINE OF 35TH
STREET; THENCE EAST, ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE WEST LINE
OF AN ALLEY LOCATED 168 FEET (MORE OR LESS) WEST OF THE WEST LINE OF
HALSTED STREET, THENCE SOUTH, ALONG THE WEST LINE OF SAID ALLEY, TO THE
NORTH LINE OF SAID 37TH PLACE; THENCE WEST, ALONG THE NORTH LINE OF SAID

Lowi Scnnevser& Associates, 02

ty ef Cheage
+ Soremnares. Mrowwcome Pa,

37TH PLACE, TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING, ALL IN THE CITY OF CHICAGO, COOK
COUNTY. ILLINOIS.

<_ =

‘Loun/Schnader& Associates ng
4;

Capetceage -

1 Exwert §
Bunoia Pena Requests,

| ‘New Consrmucnion/invesTuent PERMTs

| Dare Penurr# ‘Aponess. bovesruenr
ontom 73372 1200 W. 35th St $0
oan2e1 742494 13800 §. Racine $5,000
i 8/061 743742 18100 §. Halsted $150,000
oa 743913, 3313 S. Halsted
onreaa1 74ase1 3617 S. Ashland
103081 746969 3155 § Halsted
110881 746880 3210 § Halsted
angst 747081 1801 W. 35m" St
oxogme 750874 3700 §. ron
osname ‘750817 3150 § Halsted
‘owoae2 751886 ‘3702 §. ron
08/0192 754328 931 W. 35th St
06/0182 754329, 929 W. 35tn St
os1692 755068, 3718 S. Iron.
5 08/0592 ‘787580 4437 W. 37M St
} 100882 ‘760781 3535 §. Ashland
' sonse2 760955 3850 §. Racine
son982 781300 1301 W. 35m St
| 08/1593, Troe 963 W. 37tn St
08/3009 771430 1000 W. Pershing
oa23e3 774043 S714 8, Halsted
oae7R3 Tra318 3210 § Halsted
03/2883 775845 3822'S. Morgan,
«roars 783877 3315 S Halsted
052094 ‘7es2s2 3624 S Halsted
092094 792821 ‘3447 8. Ashiand
93094 793535 911 W. 37th Place:
1e2e4 796597 930 W. 35th St
1 120184 797041 940 W. 35th St.
Oras ‘798660 1000 W. Pershing
22205 800057 1117 W.38m St
| can305 00792
04/0505 801948,
06/0805 905427
o71395 807694
08/01/95 808737

Louw Sernece & Assocs re

yet cncago
Sshonates Arsretenen: Pas

New Constructior/investment Permits (Continued)

Date Permit # ‘Address
ogress 809127 1133 W. 35h St
10711785 12787 1535 W. 330d St
10/2508 813889 3249S. Morgan
112798 18316 3315 S. Morgan
112905 ersasz 3810S. Halsted
120895 2815980 1514 W. Pershing

Loun/Scrneier& Assoetes. ne

Investment
$5,000,
$350,000,
$8,000
$6018
'$30,000
$50,000

]

cay eros

‘Stirs: Regetopmen Pian,

‘Map 1
Map 2
Map 3
Map 4

towaescnnaier 8 heniae, ne

(MAPS LEGEND

Redevelopment Project Boundary
Existing Lang Use
Proposed Land Use

Property Authorized To Be Acquired
“=

Louw Schnee & Aesocates ne

apy

[REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT BOUNDARY

Halsted Street Subarea
Morgan Street - Fesidential Subarea
Sangamon Subarea

+ Ingustrial Subarea

3th ang Ashland Subarea
37% and Iron Subarea
Pershing Road Subarea

107
35th AND HALSTED
HALSTED STREET SUBAREA

C4

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP Y

PROJECT BOUNDARY

35th AND HALSTED
MORGAN STREET - RESIDENTIAL SUBAREA

AN

MAPS

REDEVELOPMENT PL.
PROJECT BOUNDARY

&: Associates, INC. | CONSULTING &

Pisses ~
3SN-ONVT FS0d0Hd
£ovW
MYT LNINEOTIAIOFY
VauVaNs ONVIHSY ONY Wise
G3LS1VH ONY WISE

AUVONNOE LI7OS
Lavn

NVTd LNINAOTIAIOIS
1

1 ele

vauyans NOWYONVS:
G3LS1VH ONY WISE

35th AND HALSTED
MORGAN STREET - INDUSTRIAL SUBAREA

Ti

=

=
il

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP ft
PROJECT BOUNDARY

|
“|

35th AND HALSTED
BENSON STREET SUBAREA

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP
PROJECT BOUNDARY

<= a

ee
35th AND HALSTED
‘35th AND ASHLAND SUBAREA

PRDE VEO MENT PAD

pRosEch GOUNDARY

[eine -@ “a= |

‘Lax Sonener
Se ASSOCIATES, INC
35th AND HALSTED
‘37th AND IRON SUBAREA

enor Li a

5

T

eee _ = _ }

35th AND HALSTED
PERSHING ROAD SUBAREA
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP TY

PROJECT BOUNDARY

a a

a &

SBataied Rosspani Pan

Map

Existing Lano Use

1. Halsted Street Subarea
2 Morgan Street - Residential Subarea
3. Sangamon Subarea

4 Morgan Street - Industrial Subarea
5. Benson Street Subarea

6. 35th and Ashland Subarea

7.37%h and iron Subarea

8 Pershing Road Subarea

‘ounSennectr & Assocats me

FSN-ONVT ONIL SIXT

2 oyW j
NV1d ININOTIAZ0IS — | |

vauvans ‘43guls aaisivH
GaLSIVH GNY WS

| 35th AND HALSTED
| MORGAN STREET - RESIDENTIAL SUBAREA
|
|

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP 2
EXISTING LAND-USE

|

Te vse

Tox Sanne
Sc ASsotiates. INCI CONSULTING

|

Tay -
Ll ao |

7) ——a
mason - SS rr}
woowes - Zh s KH |g
FSI-ONYT ONLLSIKE - |
CLE i
NVTd LNINGOTHAZORY

vauvans NOWVONVS
GaLS1VH ONV WISE

J oxrapiessy
{i eincos wrt

ISM-ONVT ONL SIXT
2 ayn
WVTd LNINAOTIAFOIY

4

VaUVENS TWIYLSNGNI - 3341S NYOHOW
G3LS1VH ONY 4ISE

35th AND HALSTED
MORGAN STREET - RESIDENTIAL SUBAREA

MAP 3
PROPOSED LAND-USE

| REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

| |

ijl

MAP 3
PROPOSED LAND-USE

ZB

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

a
w
im
a
a
=x
=
f=)
z
<
=
ry
tS)

HALSTED STREET SUBAREA

Coyercneape

Serebemned Recewvepmanr man

Maes

PROPOSED LAND USE

1. Halsted Street Subarea
2. Morgan Street - Residential Subarea
3. Sangamon Subarea

4, Morgan Street - industrial Subarea
5. Benson Street Subarea

6. 35th and Ashland Subarea

7. 37th and Iron Subarea

8. Pershing Road Subarea

LouieSenmecer & Assocs, pe ag
oe a. 3 =

35th AND HALSTED
PERSHING ROAD SUBAREA
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

EXISTING LAND-USE

: Tam Sener | Mannan oe
1 _[eeASsocumes, tne. ConsULTiNe

35th AND HALSTED

BENSON STREET SUBAREA

MAP 2
EXISTING LAND-USE

wanes - FA

mausron - To)
woumes - []

FSI-ONVT ONL SIXT

Zorn
NY Td LNINEOTIAIOTY
VaUVENS GNVTHSY GNy WISE
GaLSTVH ONY uISE

—_—

ESN-ONVT ONILSIXT

2 dvN
NVTd LNINAOTIAITIS |
Wl Ve

Wi 4

Te

[eT ae

W3UVaNS NOU! ONY WIZE |
G3LS1VH ONY 4ISE

35th AND HALSTED
SANGAMON SUBAREA

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

MAP 3
PROPOSED LAND-USE

| Se

f 3SN-ONVT OFISOdOHS
ean
| NWTa LNaNdOTIAZIN

a MEAL Y 1
1

VBUYENS TVINLSNGNI - 133¥LS NYOUOW
GaLS1VH ONY 4ISE

35th AND HALSTED
BENSON STREET SUBAREA

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
PROPOSED LAND-USE

 - me
EG ~ ween

TET

FSMONVT GISOPOHE
77
NV 1d LNINAOTIATOIE : |_| / | | \

V3uVENS NOU! ONY Ze
G3LSTVH GNV 43SE

a = a
35th AND HALSTED
PERSHING ROAD SUBAREA
7EDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP 3
PROPOSED LAND-USt
| Gs)

|
BS
|

in Il i |
WT

a ee SS EES A=

Map 4

PROPERTY AUTHORIZED To BE ACQUIRED

1. Halsted Street Subarea
2 Morgan Street - Residential Subarea
3. Sangamon Subarea

‘4 Morgan Street - Industrial Subarea
5. Benson Street Subarea

6. 38th ang Ashland Subarea

7. 37th and tron Subarea

8. Pershing Road Subarea

LowmiSctnaier& Associate ne

110
rots

vauvans Laauis aa.sivH
G3LS1VH ONY Wise

35th AND HALSTED
MORGAN STREET - RESIDENTIAL SUBAREA

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
MAP 4
PROPERTY AUTHORIZED
70 BE ACQUIRED

vauvens NOWVONYS |
G3LS1VH GNY Wise |

Vauvans 133U1L8 NOSNIa
G3LS1VH GNY 4ISe t
Hi r cL

V3HVGNS ‘TVIELSNGNI - 133u1S NVOHON
G3LS1VH GNY 4ISE

VauVEns ONVIHSY ONY “ise
G3LS1VH ONY 4ISE

35th AND HALSTED
37th AND IRON SUBAREA

I

ra

ae

AUVENS GYOU ONIHSHAd

v:
G4is 1VH ONY WISE

