| 1998 Annual Report

43" and Damen
Redevelopment Project Area

d Pursuant to Mayor’s
Executive Order 97-2

JUNE 30, 1999

Gay ot Chicago
Aihard Daley Mayor

Depart Png
andro

Gia ea
psteru cite

June 30, 1999

‘The Honorable Mayor Richard M, Daley, Members
of the City Council, and Citizens of the City of Chicago
City of Chicago

I2UN. LaSalle Street

(Chicago, Ilinois 60602

Ladies and Gentlemen:

‘The attached information for the 43" and Damen Redevelopment Project
‘Area, along with 63 other individual repors, is presented pursuant to the
Mayoral Executive Order 97-2 (Executive Order) regarding annual
reporting on the City’s tax increment financing (TIF) distrets. The City’s
TIF program has been used to finance neighborhood and downtown
improvements, leverage private investment, and create and retain jobs
throughout Chicago.

Pursuant to the Executive Order, the Annual Report, presented in the form
of the attached, will be filed with the City Clerk for transmittal to the City
Council and be distributed in accordance with the Executive Order,

Sincerely,

Christopher R. Hill
Commissioner
Department of Planning and Development

lhe OOW~

Walter K. Knorr
(Chief Financial Officer

= a

=

Bi ERNST& YOUNG LLP oe

June 30, 1999

Me. Christopher R, Hill
Commissioner

Department of Planning and Development
TN. LaSalle St

‘Chicago. Ilinois 60602

Commissioner Hill:

B losed is the required annual report for the 43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area,
which we compiled atthe direction of the Department of Planning and Development pursuant
the Mayor's Executive Order 97-2. The contents are based on information provided 10 us by the
‘Chicago Departments of Planning and Development, Finance, and Law Deparment. We have
not audited, verified, or applied agreed upon procedures to the data contained in this report.
‘Therefore, we express no opinion on its accuracy or completeness.

‘The report includes the City's data methodology and interpretation of Executive Onder 97.
Addition to required information. The tables in this report use the same lettering system as the
Executive Order in order to allow the reader o locate needed information quickly

It has been a pleasure to work with representatives from the Department of Planning and
Development and other City departments

Very truly yours,
a ALP

Emst & Young LLP
om

43° and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

ANNUAL REPORT - 43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA IN COMPLIANCE
WITH SECTION (#) OF THE MAYOR'S EXECUTIVE ORDER 97-2

PAGE
PURPOSE OF REPORT, 1
MeTHopoLoGy 1
(@) GENERAL DESCRIPTION, 7
(©) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION . .
(©) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN, 5
(@) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS, s
(6) DESCRIPTION OF TIF FROIECTIS) ~ - ~ - °
(0. DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS... - . - 0
(@) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS co - u
(@) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY, 2
(DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS... - 6
(FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER... “
(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS oe 1s
() CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS, co - 16
(@») COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT ”

(@) ATTACHMENT - REDEVELOPMENT PLAN, “
/— ee

om

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

Purpose of Report:

‘The purpose ofthe Annual Report forthe 43°4 and Damen Redevelopment Project Area (Report) is
to provide information regarding the City of Chicago (Cty) tax increment financing (TIF) districts in
‘existence on December 31, 1998, as required by the Mayor's Executive Order 97-2 (Executive
Order). This Report covers the 434 and Damen Redevelopment Project Area (Project Area)

Methodology:

In the process of providing information about the Project Area, care was taken to follow the
‘organization ofthe Executive Order to allow the reader to locate needed information in an efficient
‘manner. The Repost reflects only TIF economic activity during 1998, also referred to in this report
as “the prior calendar year.” As outlined below, several assumptions were made conceming certain
‘required information.

(a) General Description
‘The general boundaries ofthe Project Area are described and illustrated in a map. However, in order
to provide ease of reading, only major boundary streets are identified. For exact boundaries, the
interested reader should consult the legal description of the Project Area boundaries found in the
Redevelopment Plan (Attachment).

(&) Date of Designation and Termination

For purposes of this Report, the date of termination is assumed to oceur 23 years from the date of,
designation, the maximum duration currently allowed under the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act.

(6) Copy of Redevelopment Pan

The Redevelopment Plan, as amended (if applicable), for the Project Area is provided as the
‘Anachment at the end of the Report.
a

43° and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(4) Description of Intergovernmental and Redevelopment Agreements

Table D describes agreements related to the Project Area which are either intergovernmental
agreements between the City and another public entity oF redevelopment agreements between the
CCity and private sector entities interested in redeveloping all ora portion of the Project Area. The
date of recording of agreements executed by the City in 1998 and filed with the Cook County
Recorder of Deeds is included in Table D (if applicable)

(©) Description of TIF Projects

Table E describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has already received approval by the
Community Development Commission, and which received TIF financing during 1998. Those
projects in discussion, pre-proposal stage with a developer, or being reviewed by Community
Development Commision staff are not “projects” for purposes ofthe Report. The amount budgeted
for project costs and the estimated timetable were obtained from the Project Area's
intergovernmental or redevelopment agreements, if such agreements exist. Table E specifically

1) the nature ofthe project;
2) the budgeted project cost andthe amount of TIF assistance allocated to the project;

3) the estimated timetable and a statement of any change in the estimate during the prior
calendar year;

4) total City wx increment project expenditures during the prior calendar year and total City
tax inerement project expenditures to date;

5) a description of all TIF financing. including type, date terms, amount, project recipient,
and purpose of project financing,
43"! and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(Description of all TIE Debs Instruments
‘Table F describes all TIF debe instruments related tothe Project Area in 1998. It should be noted
that debe instruments issued without a security pledge of incremental taxes or diect payments from
incremental taxes for principal and interest are not included in Table Fas such instruments do not
‘qualify as TIF debt instruments as defined by the Executive Order. Table F includes

1) the principal dollar amount of TIF debt instruments;

2) the date, dollar amount, interest rate, and security of each sale of TIF debe instruments
and type of instrument sold;

3) the underwriters and trustees of each sale;
4) the amount of interest paid from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998);

5) the amount of principal paid from tax increment durin the prior calendar year (1998),

(g) Description of City Contracts

‘able G provides # description of City contracts related to the Project Area, executed or in effect
during 1998 and paid with incremental tx revenues. In addition, the date, names ofall contracting
partes, purpose, amount of compensation, and percentage of compensation paid is included in the
lable. “Table G does not apply to any contract or contract expenditure reported under (2)(5) of
Section 4 of the Executive Order.

City contracts related to the Project Area are defined as those contacts paid from TIF funds, not
related to a specific TIF projec, and nt elsewhere reported. tems include, but are not limited,
payments for work done to acquire, dispose of, of lease property within a Project Are, or payments
to appraisers, surveyors, consultants, marketing agents, and othe professionals. These services may
affect more than one project in a Project Area and are not otherwise reported. Table G does nat
report such noncontractual eos items as Recorder of Deeds fling fes, postage, telephone service,
‘City contacts include term agreements which ae city-wide, multi-year contracts that provide

goods or services for various City departments.

ee

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(h) Summary of Private and Public Investment Activity

Table H describes each TIF project in the Project Ares that has been executed through an
intergovemmental of redevelopment agreement in 1998, or that has been approved by the
‘Community Development Commission in 1998,

To the extent this information is available to the Commissioner of Planning and Development on 2
completed project basis, the tble provides a summary of private investment activity, job ereation,
and job retention within the Project Area and a summary for each TIF project within the Project
Are.

Table Hi contains the final ratio of private/public investment for each TIF project. The peivate

estment activity reported includes data from the intergoveramental or redevelopment
‘agreement(s) and any additional data available to the Commissioner of Planning and Development.
Other private investment activity is estimated based on the best information available to the
‘Commissioner of Planning and Development.

() Description of Property Transactions

Information regarding property transactions is provided in Table I to the extent the City took or
divested title to real propery or was 2 lessor or lessee of real property within the Project Area.
Specifically, the Executive Order requires descriptions of the following property transactions
‘occurring within the Project Area during 1998:

1) every property acquisition by the City through expenditure of TIF funds, including the
location, type and size of propery, name of the transferor, date of transaction, the
‘compensation paid, anda statement whether the property was acquired by purchase or by
‘eminent domain;

2) every property transfer by the City as part of the redevelopment plan for the Project
‘Area, including the location, type and size of property, name of the transferee, date of,
transaction, and the compensation paid;

3) every lease of real property to the City if the rental payments are to be made from TIF
funds. Information shall include the location, type and sizeof property, name of lessor,
date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the rental amount:
43% and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

4) every lease of real property by the City to any other person as part ofthe redevelopment
plan for the Project Area. Information shall include the location, type and size of
property, name of lessor, date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of retal, and the
rental amount.

G) Financial Summary Prepared by the City Comptroller
Section Gj) provides a 1998 financial summary for the Project Area audited by an independent
cerified public accounting firm. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. ‘These statements include:

1) the balance inthe fund forthe Project Area atthe beginning ofthe pe

calendar year;

2) cash receipts by source and transfers deposited into the fund during the prior calendar
year

3) ‘transfer credits into the fund forthe Project Area durin the prior calendar year;

4) expenditures and transfers from the fund, by statutory category, for the Project Area
daring the prior calendar year;

5) the balance inthe fund forthe Project Area at the conclusion of the prior alendar year.

(&) Description of Tax Receipts and Assessment Increments

Table K provides the required statement of tax receipts and assessment increments for the Project
‘Area as outlined in the Executive Order. The amount of incremental property tax equals the
incremental EAV from the prior year multiplied by the applicable property tx rates. Actual receipts
‘may vary due to delinguencies, sale of prior yeas’ taxes, and payment of

financial report for actual receipts. Table K provides the following information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales tax increment and state sales tax
increment deposited inthe fund during the prior calendar year;
Sa Ba ae

om

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

2) fora utility ax Project Area, the municipal utility tax increment and the net state utility
tax increment amount deposited in the special allocation fund during the prioe calendar
year,

3) fora property tax Project Area (A) the total inital equalized assessed value of property
Within the Project Area as of the date of designation of the area, and (B) the (otal
‘equalized assessed value of property within the Project Area as of the most recent
Property tax year:

44) the dollar amount of property taxes on property within the Project Area atibutable to
the difference between items (3)(A) and (3)(B) above.

All terms used in Table K relating to increment amounts and equalized assessed value (EAV) are
‘construed as in Section 9 ofthe Illinois Tax Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act or the
inois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law. Unless otherwise noted, the EAV and property twx
information were obtained from the Cook County Clesk’s Office. All sales tax information was
‘obvained from the City of Chicago.

(Certain Contracts of TIF Consultants

‘Table L provides information about contacts, if any, between the TIF consultant who was paid by
the City for assisting to establish the Project Ares and paid by any entity that has received or is
‘curently receiving payments financed by tax increment revenues from the Project Area. The
contents of Table L. are based on responses to a mail survey. This survey was sent to every
consultant who has prepared at least one redevelopment plan for the establishment of a
redevelopment project area within the City in 1998. The Executive Onder specifically applies to
contracts that the City’s tax increment advisors or consultants, if any, have entered into with any
entity that has received or is receiving payments financed by tax revenues produced by the same
Project Area

(m) Compliance Statement Prepared by an Independent Public Accountant

‘As part of the audit procedures performed by independent accountants, certain compliance tests were
performed related tothe Project Area. Included in the Annual Repor isan audit opinion indicating
‘compliance or non-compliance withthe Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act of the
linois Industral Jobs Recovery Law, a appropriate, Section (m) provides this statement.

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(a) GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The Project Area is generally bounded on the north by a boundary Tine which is approximately
cone block north of West 43% Street, on the east by 2 boundary line between South Damen and
South Woleott avenues, on the south by a boundary line which runs between 45" Street and 43"
Street, and on the wes by B& O Railroad. The map below illustrates the location and general
boundaries of the Project Area. For precise boundaries, please consult the legal description in the

q Redevelopment Plan (Attachment)

a ae |

43% and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

The Project Area was designated by the Chicago City Council on August 3, 1994, The Project
‘Area may be terminated no later than August 3, 2017.

(©) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

‘The Redevelopment Plan for the Project Area, as amended (if applicable), is contained in this
Report (Attachment),

(4) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS

During 1998, no new agreements were executed in the Project Area.
43° and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(€) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECTS)

During 1998, there were no tax increment project expenditures within the Project Area.

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

\ () DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS

During 1998, there were no TIF debt instruments outstanding for the Project Area.

= Se

43° and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS,

DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS RELATED TO THE PROJECT ARES

costnactine
wenn aartor COMPENSETION COMPENSATION
Dey Ako at Satara 81250 100s
fm Yong Woke PiAdnin sae vs

43° and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

During 1998, there was no information available regarding publi or private investment activity
in the Project Area,
The year 2000 information on pages 7 and 8
Einancial statenents, but is  supplenentary
Governmental Accounting St: js Board, and we did not audit and do not
express an opinion cn such information. Further, we were unable co apply to
the information certain procedures prescribed by professional standards

cause of the unprecedented nature of the year 2000 issue and its effects,
and the fact chat authoritative measurement criteria regarding the statue of
renediation efforts have not been established. In addition, we do not
provide assurance that the City of Chicago is or will become year 2000
Compliant, that the City of Chicago's year 2000 remediation efforts will be
Successful in whole or in part, or that parties with which the City of
Chicago does business are oF will become year 2000 compliant.

Qur audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule of cash activities on
page 9 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory code on page 10, which
are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago’s managenent, are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of
the financial statements of 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project of the City
of Chicago, Illinois. Such additional information has been subjected to che
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the financial statements and, in
Our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respecte when considered in
relation £0 the financial statements taken as a whole.

Parsleg tak Kisnan, LLP

certified Public Accountants

May 4, 1939
DECENBER 31,1998 ANI

ASSETS
Cash and investments
Property taxes receivable
Accrued interest receivable

Total assets

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
Due to other city funds
Deferred revenue
Total liabilicies
Fund balance
Total liabilities and fund balance

‘The accompanying not!

1228
$292,354

138,000
nen

et
$159,083

205,000
hae

are an integral part of the financial statements
|

oer
Revpoperty tax $233,057
Interest 2s
Total revenues 146,730
Expenditures
Capital projects 10.522
Revenues over expenditures 136,193
Fund balance, beginning of y 52.205
Fund balance, end of year sa2base

The accompanying not!

$ 98,106

302,522

98,284

are an integral part of the financial statements
Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Project

‘The 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Area
(Project) was established in August 1994. The area has been
established to finance improvements, leverage private investment
and create and retain jobs, Reimbursenents, if any, are made to
the developer for project costs, as public improvements are
completed and pass City inspection:

I

Basis of Accounting

The Project is accounted for within the special revenue funds
of the city.

‘The financial statements are prepared on the modified accrual
basis of accounting and current financial resources measurenent
focus with only current assets and liabilities included on the
balance sheet. Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
Fevenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual, i.e., both
Reasurable and available to finance expenditures of the current
period. Available means collectible within the current period or
Soon enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
period. Expenditures are recorded when the liability is incurred

Fixed assets are not capitalized in the general operating
funds but, instead, are charged as current expenditures when
purchased. The General Fixed Asset Account Group of the
fneludes the capital if any, of the Project

-_

Management's Use of Estimates

‘The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
aesets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
4 liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the

reported anounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act Compliance

The Project's expenditures include reimbursements for various
eligible costs as described in subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3
Of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopnent Allocation Act and the
Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the Project
Eligible costs include but are not limited to survey, property

mbly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure, financing and
jocation costs.

(Continued)

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

cash and Investments

cash belonging to the City is generally deposited with che
City Treasurer as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago. The
City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City expenditures
which represent a claim for payment when presented to the City
Treasurer. Payment for all City warrants clearing is nade by
checks drawn on the City’s various operating bank accounts.

‘The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share responsibility
for investing in authorized investments, Interest earned on pooled
investments is allocated to participating funds based upon their
average combined cash and investment balance

On January 2, 1998, the City adopted GASB Statement No. 31,
"Accounting and Financial Reporting for Certain Investments and for
Sxternal Investment Pools.* Accordingly, the City values its
investments av fair value, or amortized cost.

Property Taxes

Property taxes are susceptible to accrual and recognized as a
receivable in the year levied. Revenue recognition is deferred
Unless the taxes are received within 60 daya subsequent to
year-end.
‘The City’s operations, like those of many other business en nay
pacted by the inability of certain computer prograns and electronic systens
embedded microprocessor chips to recognize calendar dates beyond the
year 1999. Unless such programs and microprocessors are modified or replaced
Brior to the year 2000, they may not function properly after 1999.

‘The City formed an executive committee in May 1998, to oversee possible
City-wide year 2000 impacts. The Department of Business and Information
Services has been charged with managing the City’s year 2000 project. The
year 2000 issue is covered within the scope of the city’s year 2000 project
The year 2000 project is divided into stages as follows:

Awareness Stage - Establishing a budget and project plan for dealing
with the year 2000 issue.

Assesmnent Stage - Identifying the mission critical systens, equipeent
and individual components for which year 2000 compliance is needed

Remediation Stage - Making changes to systems and equipment.

Validation/testing Stage - Validating and «1
made during the remediation stage.

ting the changes that were

‘The City comitted approximately $28.2 million and $32.0 million in 1998 and
1999, respectively, for the repair and replacement of year 2000 compromised
systens. As of December 31, 1998, the City entered into contracts for
approximately $17.7 million for the test plan development, audit stages and
Upgrade of certain software programs.

Mission Critical Applications

‘The City has identified one computer application, the Chicago Accounting and
Purchasing System, as critical to conducting the operations for year 2000
compliance, As of December 31, 1998, the City completed the awareness and
assessment stages, and the remediation stage was in process for the above
fission critical component. This mission critical component is still subject
to the validation/testing stage. The City-wide completion of all stages is
scheduled for September 1999.

Enbedded systems

‘The awareness stage, including an inventory of embedded systens has been
completed. Baseline assessment of mission critical functions involving
embedded systems was substantially completed by the end of the first quarter
of 1999. ‘The City has retained outside consultants to manage and implement
completion of this aspect of the year 2000 project by the end of September
1998
(Continued)

other Considerations

‘The City also initiated an assessment of mission critical vendors, which is
being performed by a consultant with oversight from the executive conmittes
£0 pian for continuity in the City’s supply chain. Contingency planning for
mission critical systems and other elements of the year 2000 project is
Scheduled to be completed by the end of Septenber 1333,

‘The above description of the stages of work to address the year 2000 issues
is not a guarantee those systems will be year 2000 compliant. Although the
City is currently on schedule to meet ita objectives for year’ 2000
compliance, there is no assurance that compliance will be achieved in a
tinely manner. Further, if the City successfully addresses its year 2000
issues, there is no assurance that any other entity or governnental agency
(including governmental organizations or entities that provide essential
infrastructure) with which the City electronically interacts will be year
2000 compliant. "At this tine, the City can not determine the potential
impact of such noncompliance on the business and financial condition or the
results of ite operations

cash flows from operating activities
Rea received

for capital projects

received

Increase in cash and investments
cash and investments, beginning of year

cash and investments, end of year

Reconciliation of revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Revenues over expenditures
Adjustments to reconcile revenues over
‘@xpenditures to net cash provided

(increase)

Property tax receivable
Accrued interest receivable

changes in liabilities - increase
‘Due to other City funds
Deferred revenue

och) eee ae
$138,015 $ 98,106
(3,033) :
laa __s
332,321 98,122
252.063 __sa.022

$22k.354 $152,043

$136,193 § 98,284

(33,000) (205,000)
(4284) (3/389)

2,aad 3,227
—2Li2s8 _105.000

ae Geka
Sode Description i398

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
specifications, implementation and administration
of the redevelopment plan including but not
Limited to staff and professional service costs
for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing $10,537

ee.
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS.

‘TABLE K
DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

roraL
MUMCIPAL STATE MUNICIPAL —_NET STATE TOTAL INCREMENTAL
SALESTAX SALESTAN UTILITY TAX UTILITY TAX INITIAL 1987 PROPERTY.

YEAR INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT AY. HAY TAXES 1997

198 NAG) NAG) NAG) NAG) S8398485 SeaHON21 8137873

perros
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

() CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS:

During 1998, no TIF consultant was paid by the City for assisting to establish the Project Area
tnd paid by any entity that has received o is curently receiving payments financed by ax increment
revenues from the Project Area

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANT

<—

Bansiey and Kiener, L.L.P.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPOR’

‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Membera of the city Council
City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the balance sheet of 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project of the City of
Chicago, Illinois as of Decenber 31, 1998, and the related statement of
Fevenues, expenditures and changes ‘in fund balance for the year then
ended, and have issued cur report thereon dated May 4, 1999.

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that caused us
to believe that the Project failed to comply with the regulatory
Provisions in Subeection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Illinois Tax
Tnerement Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (0) of Section
1i°94"5-10 of the Illinole Industrial Jobs Recovery Law as they relate co
the eligibility for costa incurred incidental to the implenentation of the
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the City of chicago, Illincis.

This report is intended for the information of the City of Chicago’
management. However, this report is a matter of public record, and its

Giecribucion 1 not Vinited.
Birckeg wnt Bary, LLP.

certified Public Accountante

May 4, 1999

a Se

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

ATTACHMENT
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
os =

43rd AND DAMEN
TAX INCREMENT REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

PLAN AND PROJECT

Prepared for:
The City of Chicago

By:
Camiros, Led.

April, 1994

This plan is subject to review and may be revised after comment and public hearing

we a

a

‘TABLE OF CONTENTS

1, INTRODUCTION.
2, REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION...

3, ELIGIBILITY OF THE PROJECT AREA FOR DESIGNATION AS A.
CONSERVATION AREA.

4. COMMUNITY PLANNING OBJECTIVES/REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
GOALS AND OBFECTIVES

3, REDEVELOPMENT PLAN.
6. REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT DESCRIPTION ---e— em
7. GENERAL LAND USE PLAN AND MAP...
8
9.

DESIGN CONTROLS AND CRITERIA ..

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT FINANCING...
10, PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING THE PLAN...
1. ITY OF GICAGO COMMETMENT TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT

‘TABLE |, ELIGIBLE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS.
‘TABLE 2 INITIAL EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE OF REDEVELOPMENT
PROECT. nn caaannan

=e

43RD AND DAMEN
‘TAX INCREMENT REDEVELOPMENT
‘PLAN AND PROJECT

1
INTRODUCTION

‘This document presents the recommended Tax Increment Redevelopment Plan and Project forthe
43rd and Damen industrial aea located in the Stockyards Industral Corndor on Chicago's south
side, The plan and project fespond to problem conditions including the presence of numerous
‘ligheng fctore ands lack of pnvate investment within the study area, and eflec the commitment
bythe City of Chicago to improve and revitalize the Redevelopment Project Area. Private
evelopment and investment in the area cannot be reasonably expected to cecur without the
leddeip snd sistance of he Ci inlading the adoption of ts Resevelopment Plan and Proje,
be of cx increment financing.

‘Tax Increment Financing
Jp adoring che Tax Increment Allocation Relevelopment Act, he nos StaeLepslaure found

“there exist in many municipalities within this State blighted, conservation and industrial park
caservation areas, thatthe conservation areas are rapidly deteriorating and declining and may
Soon become bligheed area their decline ls not checked. .t is hereby found and that
In rder to promote and protect the health, sfery, morals and well of the public, hat blighted
conditions need to be eradicated and conservation measures instituted, and that redevelopment
‘of such areas be undertaken. The ezadication of blighted areas and treatment and improvement
of onservation areas and industrial park conservason areas hereby decaedt be ential to
1 public interest”

tn order o use the tax increment finincing technique, a municipality must fie etablish chat the
‘Proposed redevelopment projet area meets the satutory criteria foe designation a bighted ares"
Peerage fe indatal coterie A eevee hn mee ‘hen be
Feepared which describes che development or fedevelopment program intended ro be underacen°@
Feduce or eliminate those conditions which qualified te redevelopment project area as blighted
ea", “conservation sre or combination here, or “industrial conservaion area”, and thereby
‘hae the tax bac of ie eng dues wich extend Into dhe reerlopment projet are
‘edevelopmene projects are defined as any public or private development profeet Underaken 18
pment projects we defined as any publ or ent Po

furtherance of the ‘redevelopment plan.

‘The legislation requires char each redevelopment plan set forh in writing the which willbe

‘onderaken to accomplish the monieipalitys redevelopment objecaives. The Act also states that
“No redevelopment plan shall be adopted unless... (1) The municipality finds that the

redevelopment prove area on the whole has not been subject to growth and deve
‘rough investment by private encerprise and would not be easonably be anciipated to be
Seveloped withows the adopeion ofthe redevelopment plan (2) The municipality finds that he
‘cdevelopmene plan and prower conform tothe comprenensive pan or the development of the
‘aniciplity at's whole, or foe municipalities with + popolation of 100,00 or more, egardess of
When the redevelopment plan and project was saopec, the reuevelopment plan and projet
‘ier i conforms tothe sratepc eonomic development or development plan issued by the
esgnaced planning authority of che municipality, or [i includes land uses that have een

a se

soproved by the planning commission ofthe municipal, 9) The seevlopment plan
Nits fe gelmued Ser competion oe redeviopimene psc and saree
Ses conc kien oes os, Ton St Sal nt ere an 3
im the soon tthe onance sfrving the relevtepment oer f the
Sateen adopted ono ate unsary 1s TOE, anise ore lee $ese te caes
was noted br January 15 B41 of he mony sub ro she aed Covers
Figs Fang and Soperaon Ace» The mancpay hin eh case soda
ark conscrsac tabetha the meals ber vate tepid atte
Remeron he redereapmenc pln il icy gromglorau cee soe head Oy
ihe pron of se acca cance te tax nef she tay aie Sed she
er clopment projec ares. iy ncn revenue at eng aeicd ater Scio
Saher Oud) ths han reterclopmen oe sss spore dacs ser aay
tbe the nipaly hd al are tdeeapment proec ea would st resem
Serle whoa the ve of sneer etree, eng et ek nscale
willetexdusey tied rth evcopmest erga Powe sea

Zanunto te revo conan a the At he Cif Chag a ated an caso
wheter porash Semen ina ares Guaifes designation sv" highted rea"
Eni theres quien the prearsin fs redevopenr plan frie development poet
Ses in accordance with te requvement the Ace

‘The 43rd and Dames Redevelopment Project Area

‘The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area is located within the Stockyards Industral
Corridor on south side, The Redevelopment Project Area i generally bounded by the east
{ine of the ease I/F ofthe NW 1/4 of Section 6-08-14, chen east along the south rightol-way line of
‘4rd Steet eo 3 point approximately 130 feet west ofthe west right-of-way line of Wolcot Avene,
then generally southwest along the Chicago River and industrial Railroad Company right-of-way to
{he est ught-ofway ine of Bamen Avenue, then west to the west nghtotway line of Dames
‘Avene, en north proximately 110 feet the authwen along the southeastern per line of
far patel SD SOLIS shen gencaly ‘orth along the western pope Une fad pees
Continuing north along the western property line of tax parcel 20-06-301-010 to. point
Spprosimately 250 fee south of the south gar-l-way line of Sed Stree then west appromiaacely
imately 250 let to the south night-o- way line of Sr Street, then west
kway line Of Grd Street. then east tothe
Te, then noreh a sistance of approximately
approximately 660 fee, chen noha dane of sproxmarey 2
fee hes ct stance of apponimatly 85 lr co he cat ine of he ean 2 the NW A
Section 6-38-14 then sovch co the poin of beginning. The dard and Damen Redevelopment Project
‘Area ls appromimately 38:96 sere in size and a bordered on the east by the Stockyards Tax
increment Financing Distice which was established in 1989.

‘The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Arex has not been subject to groweh and development
by private enterprise An analysis of conditions within the redevelopment project area indicates that
118 appropriate for designation as a redevelopment project in accordance with the Sate of Minos
‘ax increment financing legislaton.

‘The analysis disclosed thatthe area was originally developed without the benefit or guidance of
overall community planning, and that the area does not meet basic sandards and guidelines for
Contemporary development. As a result ofthese and other factors, the area Is characterized by
Conditions that warrant the designation ofthe entire area as a “blighted area” under che defistions
Set forth in the Tax increment Allocation Redevelopment Act ofthe State of llisols (hereinafter
Feferredtoas the “Ace”

‘The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan and Project have been formulated in accordance with the
provisions ofthe Act. This document is' guide to all proposed public and private actions in the
Redevelopment Project Area.

2
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION

‘The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area is generally bounded by the east lin ofthe east
UB che NW 1/4 of Sein 638-1 then est long ibe south ipa neo rd See (9.4
point approximately 120 feet west ofthe west right-of-way line of Walcott Avenue, then general
Southwest along the Chicago River and Industrial Railroad Company sight-o way tthe eat Fight.
stiway in of Bares Avenue, then west the we nahtoleay line o Dunen Avenve
approximately 10 fet, then southwet along he southeast ine of x pare
S201 FTE then generally rch slong the westers ropeny ine of Sud parcel conanclng
along he western line fax puree! 2005301010 pint spproximatly 250 fee south
he ouch ao ay ie of led Sees cen es money 100 let then nore
ly 250 feet tothe south right-of-way line of 3rd Stree, then west approximately 1,00)
i2Rethen north othe north right way line of Grd Stee then eit to the went Ge the ea
of the NW 1/4 of Section 638-15, then north 2 distance of approximately 625 feet, then east 2
distance of approximately 660 feet, then north a distance of approximately 28 feet, then east a
stance of approximately 685 fet to the east line ofthe east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Secon 63818
then south to the point of beginning. The boundaries ofthe Redevelopment Project Area are shown
in Figure I. The Redevelopment Project Areas approximately 35.96 acres in size.

{ilu despa of the Redevelopment Projet Are nce as Agen of ths dame
‘opened redevelopment prot area iy contiguous parcels, guaies fr desigration
12.4 Flgheed are” and isnot lems tha 1/2 acres in segue he Ag The ered
Redevelopment Project‘ include only st ue which is shccipaed toe mbststy
Benetted by the proposed relevelopmene prec amprovements.

‘The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area is located in the Stockyards Industrial Corridor.
ieisairenromneenetseen teeae einen a
Fp unde ule Swocig ie ex purse sy sea and opey. Arve

son an Eve map cates ta hi ae oee saad many tl pn Wh

“The predominant land use inthe Redevelopment Project Area is warehouse and distribution. Other
industrial uses surround the redevelopment project area The present land use disenbution is shown
in Figure 2

The Re ment Project Area is presently zoned as a M2-3 General Manufacturing District east
of Damen and as 3 MG-S Heavy Manulactunng District west of DamealPigure 3}

‘The Dry Storage Corporation isthe largest propery owner in the Redevelopment Project Area. Dry
Ettage holdings inclaceappromatly€28000 square tet of warehouse ace vied among 2
Boas on alghdy ise da Te sere lands

“Truck access to the Redevelopment Project Area is provided via 43rd Street, Damen Avenue is
lovated tough the Redevelopment Project area and does noe provide vet wuck aces. Pedestrian
access is provided by two seairways from Damen Avenue to <Srd Steet below. rd Saeet is paved,
owever, ose public and private righs-ol-way serving the seu afea exist a unimproved dr and
aval oadwaye
a

‘The area was developed in rwo major waves. The earliest buildings were built inthe early 1900's and
inclade two large multi-story warehouses and two smaller industrial buildings, These buildings are
Iceated in the southeast quadrane of the study area and were designed to take advantage of the
gmerous rai spur char served the ares The remaining Suing in the sty ae were Dut
Between 1962 and 1976. Ie was during this period that the area assumed its current identity as 2
strong warehouse and disenbution disence.

ory 199/014 owdoyanpou
oi

SS

\
Wi
+ ee ok Se ~

Figwe 2
Existing Land Use

ee a

JC Ss _

3
ELIGIBILITY OF THE PROJECT AREA FOR DESIGNATION AS A BLIGHTED

[Ds fed and Dane Redevelopment Piet Area. he wine hn ben sb to Bowe and
eat through investment by pivate enterprise. Sased on the conditions present, the sea is
Sov likly tobe developed without the adoption of the redevelopment pan

ts Flay, 94 ty vas nda ub vi epg cae
Soham aeebitciets Sermo

ft tt icin Boob at eae =
Ta sige ne Br i

(Of the 14 factors cited in the Act, 8 factors are present within the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment
Project Area. Five are required in order forthe afea to be designated 23 blighted. The following
blighting factors were found to be present within the Redevelopment Project Area:

: uate Uuliies

‘Several unused railroad parcels were also found tobe present in the study area

‘The specific basis upon which eligibility for fon a8 a blighted area was established, is
‘resented inthe 4rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Elipility Report.
mart

4
COMMUNITY PLANNING OBJECTIVES/REDEVELOPMENT PLAN GOALS
AND OBJECTIVES

‘ere ll Ninn rw cay tc
Ehiekeoh dual development paces uniedted athe Cig's CORRISRY OF INSTR
ers

Sag aia wae Doce

— pein pty ee Sh er ng ae ep
jiyarts era rec cee cre neers
aah yan nominal aeieteneng mae
Ertveen Industral and other lind use, and to manimize the benefits of public invesument in
Coenen ta

‘itt ine in pn tam

L sn industrial land use plan which designates viable and well defined industrial
Adopt cE ign

2 Maintain the indusial inte ofthe corridor by equcing that for non-industrial
‘Grelopmant and popes ar essing ww adv douica We append wpe
cnt

3. Continue che selective use ofthe Planned Manufacturing District mechanism as 2 tool for
searing seability of land use inthe City's industrial areas.

‘4 Amend the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance applicable to che manufacturing
Zoning diseries fora lasafiation of uses and associated development randards which ae
Congruent with che needs of modera industrial development.

5. Rezone the non-industrial zoned properties within the corridor and, as necessary, existing
industrially zoned properties consistent with the appropriate modified M-zoning category.

& Give consideration to the operational needs of existing industrial uses when
‘viewing the rezoning of industrial peoperty outside of industrial coms.

7 Esablish an iaterdeparemencal program to ideniy and really update the infasrvcare
‘needs of industry throughout the City. ia 1 ors

Feature che industrial patk opportanities ientiied in the land use plan in citywide programs
toattrac, expand and retain industy, Identify land in industrial caidas forint
Alevelopment and create programs (0 assist the private sector in the development of
‘tes.

9. Identify Rail Access Development Areas and foster a closer relationship between the
railroads and the City to enbance the development and marketing of rail roperies and

es

“ 2

‘The 4rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan and Project will enhance the City's ability to achieve its
foals, The Proposed Redevelopment Plan and Project is consistent with adopted industrial
‘evelopment polices because it maintains the industnal integicy ofthe comidor and will facilitate
Industral expansion elsewhere in the City.

tert cu etch

Feng ect ans ope pn er

Tecra ee send oe reat in ene

Rae eae eee

Sheclves of encouraging developmene and prvateinvewmnent wil be realised by

- poeta ee ow te

* Chau nye ene

* tase og ee
Inprovementy, sn ote scuoises hat maybe seceary so encourage dott rots the
Soaanate

«mec te ny in iy re

» seer papertnem ent ay geapronast ein

the City of Chicago deems necessary inorder to implement the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment
Plan and Project.

10
J

5.
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

The Ciey proposes to achieve its redevelopment goals and obgcive (or the Redevelopment Project,
Area ‘through the use of public financing techniques, including tax increment financing, and by
Sndenaking some orl ofthe following actions

‘Assembling sites fr redevelopment through appropriate land assembly echniques. The Cy
‘may devermine that is necessary to participate in property acquisitlon or may use other
‘means to induce transfer of such property to 2 private developer. Land acquisition activities
ie intended to lactate private fnveatment and upgrading Of exating buildings within the
[Redevelopment Project Area.

Providing public improvements and facilities which may include, but are not limited to
surlace nght-o&way improvements.

Encerng into rs agreements forthe rehabilitation or construction of private
Tnprovdoena in sccelance oh te Redevelopment Fan

a
_— sae

6.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT DESCRIPTION

‘The 4rd and Damen Redevelopment Project is intended to facilitate the expansion of the Faley
Foods, USA warehouse facilities within the City of Chicago. This expansion will allow Farley tO
Increase production at ies Chicago plant, and chus employment. The proect involves the acquisition
4d improvement of several large warehouse facilities within the Redevelopment Project Area.

aoe wo cary ou heals improvements sede wo simulate pvt invent nthe
velopment project ea and industrial expansion in other areas of Cseap some or ll Of Be
Telowang aves and acdona may be enleraten

Development Strategies/Rederelopment Activities
‘Site Assembly

‘To chive she renwal of she ed gn Damen Redevelopment Pog Area, propery Mentied in
Figure fy may be acquired by purchase or long term lease and ether sold or leased for priate
Tedevelopment ot sold, leased of dedicated for consruction of public improvements The Cty ma¥
Gctermine that to meet the objectives of this Redevelopment Plan, properties, scheduled for
sequin in ihe plan may be exempted rom seqlsion withdue amendment of his
Redevelopment Pan

Provision of Public lmprovements and Facilities

Agi prem nnn ry pore pr Remen
Ape gern ene cru i ea
ese eh erree ms ie stien eta Gan tases
SERIE ieee aes Sains ante a Se sta
Sa eer

Adnan genoa

‘oe cmeae rind eed pu hi dlp hal emer

res nd sien he mien le al nn

repate dapention ares Such apeements ay coin mare opie those
ftated in this Redevelopment Plan.

—_ ee _

ra
GENERAL LAND USE PLAN AND MAP

‘This Redevelopment Pan and the proposed Redevelopment Project conform tothe Cty of Cass
adopted industrial land use policy. ” "

“The General Land Use Plan, Figure 4, identifies land uses expected to result fom implementation of
2 pla. The sor lnd ue category included wah the Redevelopment rec: Ate industrial
warehouse and disenbution. The land use plan is intended co provide a guide for furure land use
Improvements and developments within the Projece Area

‘The proposed 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project envisions the consolidation and resubéivision
ofthe property within the redevelopment project area as needed o facilitate industrial use of the

diy pr nomen: ecg ay dig
piptires ee oy oretee smarts mare mort eerie:
General Land Use Plan
oe ors a

8
DESIGN CONTROLS AND CRITERIA

1 is the intent ofthis redevelopment plan chat the project area be used as a conveniently located
warehouse and distribution district. The following design and development objectives should be used
{ puide new development and Improvemencs within the Redevelopment Project Area, and apply

‘equally co all areas included in che land use plan. These design objectives are consistent with the
‘CORRIDORS OF INDUSTRIAL

ndations contained in the City of Chicago's

Provide an adequate supply of appropriately located employee parking within the
sent Project Area.

Facilitate the provision of off-street loading facilities that meet the needs of modem

Ensure that new development complies with the Zoning Ortinance regulations within the
Redevelopment Projet Ares

Undertake roadway and walls improvernens 2s neaded 10 that the propery functions a8 &
‘madera: well lance indusal sr foe meas tans whe ray 6a modean dseibonn
echnguen

1s
_ 2 = es

9.
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT FINANCING

“Tex increment can only be used when deazed private investment would nt resoaably be
Zijected to ocar witoae poble sattance The ealilioglepastcn lowing te nea ot
{Semen ancing in ina sec forthe ange of pube anustance hat may be Powided

Hlgible Project Costs

Redevelopment project costs mean and include the sum total ofall reasonable or necessary costs
{curred or esumaced tobe incurred, and any such costs incidental to ths Redevelopment Plan and
Redevelopment Project. Eligible costs may inclode, without limitatic, the following.

1. Costs of seudies and surveys, development plans and speciications, implementation and
‘administration of the redevelopment including but not limited (0 staf and protessional
Service costs including but not Limited to architectural, engineering, legal, marketing,
finaneial, planning or other special services,

2 assembly costs, including but not limited to acquisition of land and other propery,
Falar powona crnight or ineroa tern, demolicoh of Bolg aad the cea and
sada land

3. Costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction, repair or remodeling of existing public or private
buildings and fxures,

4. Costs ofthe constraction of public works or improvements

5. Costs of job training and reuaining projects,

(6 Financing cos, including but noe limited to all necessary and incidental expeases related to
the issuance of obligations and which may include payment of interest on any obligations
Issued under the Act accruing during the estimated period of construction Of any

‘aevelopaene projet for which sch cligatons ae ntued and fr ao exetding 36
months thereafter and including reasonable reserves related thereto, *

7. Alloa portion of taxing isis capital cont resuling trom the R Proeet,
‘sadly incre cr oe neoved i arene othe Redorapsent Pa tnd Poet
{o the exent the municipality, by wnten agreement acceps and approves such eos)

18. Relocation costs tothe extent thatthe Cy determines that relocation costs shall be paid or
that che Ciy is tequired to make payment of relocation costs by State o Federal law,

9. Payment in lew of taxes,
10. Costs of job taining. advanced vocational education or career edocation, including but not

Timited to courses ia occupational, semi-technical ot techaical fields leading dectly 10
employment, incured by one or more taxing districts as provided inthe Act

16
LL, Ingerese costs incurred by 2 developer related co che construction, renovation of
‘rehabilitation as provided inthe Act

‘The cost of constructing new privately-owned buildings isnot an eligible redevelopment proest cos,
Tipe authetsed bythe Ace renee

tau Pc
reais igerm hel glee ios
pape erence garter eco fee

Acquisition of propery fr sale or lease for private redevelopment including appropriate relocation

renatad con: $3000.00
Set pavement plscenen or he fate inpoveiens Taste movers teed
tolimpravesecess othe Recerelopment Proect Area an simulate pate vestment
Eumated cont: $40.00
Planning legal, survey, fee and other related development cst. This bade element provides for
mages ve cae panning sod implementation of the project, including planning and legal
mated com: £60.00
‘Contingencies purnant to provision ofthe Act
‘scmaed cor: 102000

‘The estimated gross eligible project cost is $3,200,000. The total projec cost including public and
private component is etme a $11,000,000.

‘All project cont esimates are in 1998 dollars. Any bonds isued to finance ofthe project
include an amount of proceeds sulicint to pay costomary and resotuble charges assccated
‘rth fogance of such cligations as well aso provide for capealized aceres and reasonably
Toqured reserves. Adhustments ta estimated line items are expected and may be made withost
{riendment so the Redevelopment Plan slong the tual projec: expenditures remain anchangea

Tablet
ELIGIBLE REDEVELOPMENT PROTEST COSTS
Land Assembly $3,000,000
Public improvements and Facilities 40,00
Planning, Legal, Surveys and Related Development Costs 60,00
Contingencies 100,000

TOTAL $3,200,000

— 2

Sources of Funds

nds necessary to pay for redevelopment project costs and municipal obligations which have been
{sued to pay for such costa are to be derived principally fom tax increment revenues and proceeds
{fom munelpal obligations which have at thew revenue source tx increment revenue

‘The ta increment revenue which wil be waed to fand ux increment obligations and redevelopment
Project ont shall be the incremencal fal property taxes. incremental el property at Teves
Feral to the ices nthe crrenetqualard arene vale each able oe Bock sac of
Parcel of rel propery inthe Redevelopment Proce Area over aad above the ita eualsed
‘Etcsedvalue'of each sach propery inthe Redevdgpnent rect Aes, Other sorets & Tunas
SBESRay bute ty fr element co nd aga eed the proce ch we
toe for such cont, re and npstion procects, mate and federal pant invexment income,
Und such other sources of fonds and revenues a8 the manicipality may fom time co time deem
Spopeate
fuse of nang ndevsopeeat poses Cos Such fond may be payload vale tse
‘Elzvelopmtse projet con Such bode maybe aj an afar tes
[eve agains all taxable propery ia the iny Chicago.

Development ofthe 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Arta would not be reasonably expected
to occur without the use of the incremental revenues provided By the Acs Redevelopment project

Sons include thee lige rjc cons at ferth im the Act and not che fl ange of evelopment
oats associated with the proposed Redevelopment Project. The majority of development costs
be financed, Tax increment financing or ther public sources will be used only to the

fertent needed to secure commitments for private redevelopment activity.
[Nacure and Term of Obligations tobe Issued

‘The Ci of Chicago may issue obligations secured by the tax increment special tx allocation fund
Cetalied fer the prover area pursuant fo che Actor such other funds or se=urty a8 ae avalablet9
‘he Cay by vrae of powers pursuant the linte State Constistion.

‘All ua increment financing obligations issued by the City of Chicago inorder to implement this,
Redevelopment Fan and Project sal be rered within Sweaty three £3) yeas om he adoption of
SBlgsane ie tend mayne be ltr ca ereny al Years tom thes rnpecie eat
SS: Gator more sere of cbligntons nay be sold ar on or more nes in tder fo plement is
i cligtlous ued oy he Gy poruan ote Rederdopneat Pls and et sal nox enced the
ti cligtions ° ‘owe R Pls and Ae sal ace

‘oun preted vo be svaale om the sx increment rerenues and fom sack Sond sinking
‘ds or other sources of ands as may be provided by ordinance

erga al ued he scheduled andre ecement of obligation, and for ser
inking funda and redevelopment projet cows, and. to the extent thatthe Fel oper tax
{ncremene i not oud for soc parponesshll be declared surplus and shall then become sralale
{Gr dntabution annually to taking distacts in the Redevelopment Prowce Area ia the manet
Frovided bythe Ace

‘Most Recent Equalized Assessed Valuation

‘As of the 1992 tax year, the tual assessed valuation for the Re ven Project Area
$5,450.74, The equalized valuation for exch ofthe parcels contained within the 3rd and
‘Damen Redevelopment Project Area is presented in Table 2.

‘The inital equalized assessed valuation is subject to final determination and verification by the

‘Cook County Assessor. Aiter verification, the corect figure shall be cerulied by the County Clerk of
(Cook County inci
ae

=e

Table?

INITIAL EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE OF REDEVELOPMENT PROIECT AREA

1992 Equalized
Pagel Acer Value
20.06 100058 ‘Raion
2096100081 753,715
30.06. 100083, Tiaeg23
20:06-100-050 29.766
3006100001 263,628
2006105002 ‘S235
2006100087 sigos7
2006100098
2005301-008 33272
3006301-005, tase
20.06301-007 98,391
20.06301-009 3x01
20.06301-10 577869
2.060118 7388
30.06301018-ca02 36827
20.06 s00003 35326
320.06-400.005, 139,436
30.06400.006 esisat
20.06400.009 3is.ase
30.06400010 6
zodeao0o11 280,116
20.06400017 Ralload
20.05400022 196,505
20.06400023
Total 35,450,274

‘Ancicipated Equalized Assessed Valuation

(nce the project has been completed andthe property is fully aseaed the equalized ansnsed
Yaluacon df vel propery within the Redeveloprnent Project Area exumated 297,978.54, Ths
‘Seimate has Beem calcalated assuming tha the Redevelopment Project Area wil be developed in
Sccordance with the general lnd use pan described in Chaper 7 ofthis document.

‘The estimated equalized assessed valuation assumes cht che assessed vale of property within the
study area will increase substandualy asa result of planned asquisiuon and improvements involving
‘several large warehouse buildings within the Redevelopment Project Area.

bent ronan ene og oy

han tate irtereet ec taeretics

saee/ Signs 9 onan eka ees
it morc enceenie eames one
ra ake ket dee

Fisancial Impact om Taxing Districts

Because she propoed Redevelopment Flan and Poet invalves aeguston and improvement o
existing buildings, and noe new construction, che financial ‘the redevelopment prolect is
‘Sipected tobe negligible No incremed demands for services om any taxing dsece affected by the
Redevelopment Plan and Project are anticipated.

1»
== ae a

Although no shor-term financial o service demand impacts are expected to result from adoption of
this Redevelopment Plan and Project, iv is hoped that additional private avestment willbe attracted
to the area over the feof the Redevelopment Project. Since the specie natare of such investments
‘cannot be determined at chs time, the financial impacts on the various taxing jurisdictions ot
Increased service demands resulting from such new development cannot be quantified. However,
because of current zoning, the existing land use pattern, and the Ciry’s adopeed industrial land use
policy, any new development is key to be industrial in nature. As result, increased service
Eemands are likely to be limited to utlities ether provided by the City of Chicago ot the
‘Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. The City will monitor and assess the
financial impact or increased service demands on afected axing jrisdictions and develop specie
plans to address any such impacts chat may ceeur over the life o the Redevelopment Pret,

Real extate tax revenues resulting from increases in the equalized asessed value over and above the
Cerufed inital equalised seated valve exablished swish the adoption ofthis Redevelopment Plan
nd Project wil be ued copay eligible redevelopment costs inthe area AC the end of such period,
the fea estate tax revenues atibutale to the increase inthe equalized assessed value over the
cued inital equalised sreested Value wil be dstiboced to allaxing districts levying pro
‘es agains propery located in the Redevelopment Project Area, Succesfal implementation of this
Redevelopment Plan and Prone t expected to result in new development and private investment on
{ale lent 6 ovecomebihed condor sd sosantally poe telongtem esscae
Wale ofthe area

(Somplecon of the Redevelopment Pet and Reem of Oblindons to Rance Redeeopment
‘This Redevelopment Project will be completed on or before a date twenty-three (23) years from the

adoption of the ordinance designating the Redevelopment Project Area. The City of Chicago expects
that the Redevelopment Project will be completed sooner than the maximum tte limit set by the
ax
we

10.
PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING THE PLAN

‘This 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project and Plan may be amended pursuant
the provisions ofthe Tax inrement Alloesuon Redevelopment Act me

a
— =

nL
CITY OF CHICAGO COMMITMENT TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

of any Redevelopment Agreement entered into by the City and the private developer, boos
(Gestablish and implement an affirmative action hae serves Sectors
nike S ‘mpl program appropriate

With pect tothe pull pcivan development’ internal operations, bath entiies will purse
‘employment practices which cal opportunity call rope reparles ofsexclo, face of
Ered Well parey wil eoumtenanceSertastion ssa Sy exployee er spc: Bane of
sex, arial Sates, ational origin, ape or the presence of physical handicaps, These
Beiieiminatory paces wl apt to al areas of eploymeny ncudng ng. wppading sad
‘romosons, temunsuon's, compensstion, Benet progam and cduestionl opparanises

Anyone involved with employment or contacting activites for this sept Poe will be
‘pnb for enformance policy and the compliance requirements of applicable state

Th hy and the vate develope nied athe implemen oti Redrelopnen: Pct
vl dope a pole eae ‘pporcanity and wil iclude or require the incision of hs
esevdopment Prost rea Any pleat pane exablabe fx he fevelpnet poet

rent Project Area Any poblie pve eS elopment project
{ne Redevelomene Project Arta wil sek oenvoe and tainains working envitvarent re of
‘Sapued o work hal be apecicaly crue tl ote upevony penennel ee frase
to work it hal be specticaly en ‘mate sopernocy nue tware
‘Seacary oor the cilstion fo maintain sacha working eavsontent, wh seid atten ©
fron andor female indivsduals. The parcnership wil wise afirmatve scion to ensure that
Tosiness opportunities are provided and that Job applicants are employed and weated in 4
ory anne

Underlying this policy is the recognition that successful alirmatve action progam are important
{othe dnaned rt sod vi the ey of Cae

APPENDIX A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE 43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT AREA

«of Secon 6, Township 38 porth Range can ofthe third principal meridian, decribed
begining a point on the ene of the porhwest 1st sa Scion sud page
fein the nortestesiy core fhe pura a land tbe by prmanetendes spb 2008 OE,
(058 on the Official Cook County Tax Map, thence southerly along suid east Line ofthe northwest
1/8 Sd alng the en lne ofthe suchen 1/6 of a Sevon 0 te south ine of wens Sed
Stree thence eatery along said south line of west 4rd Street tothe westerly line ofthe stockyards
lndustral-commercial redevelopment project area pursuant to the ordinance passed by the Cy
‘Council of she Cary of Chicago on March 8, 1989, sald poin being 130 feet, more oles, west. of he
West line of south Wolcoee Avenue, thence southerly snd southwesterly along the weseery Line of
‘aid stockyardsindustral-commercial redevelopment project area being also the wack aight-of-way
ine, tan incersection withthe center line of vacated west 44th Street, sad poine being 17627 feet
west ofthe west line of south Wolcott Avenue; thence easterly along said center Line of vacated west
‘Tech Screet, 2627 fet to the westerly line of said stockyarde indestril-commercal redevelopment
gles ares thence souhwenry ang the wesc peo sid stockyaris indstcabcommercal
Fedevelopment project area, being aso the tack nght-of way line. to the east line of south Damen
‘Avenue, thence due west to the east line of the southwest 1/4 of said Section 6, thence northerly
‘long the east line of sad southwest 1/4 to che southessery line ofthe parcel of land denned by
Permanent index number 20.06-301-018 on the Official Cook County Tax Map, thenee
Southwestely along the southeasterly Line of the parcel of land identified by permanent index
‘Bumber 20-06-201-016, being also the track right-of-way lin, to the most southerly comer of said
parcel of land, thence northerly along che westerly lin of said parcel of land idenited by permanent
Index aumber 20.06-301-014, being also the wack right-of-way lin, to che south line ofthe parcel of
land identified by permanent index number 20-06-301-010 on the Olieial Cook County ‘Tax
thence weserly along said last deseribed south line to the wese Line of said pareal of land Ident
by permanent index number 2006-301-010, thence northerly along said last described west line,
Sang als the ack righ-sway ling 0 ze nrcwext comer of ai are of and ena
permanent index qumber 20-06-301-010; chence westerly parallel withthe south line of west 43rd
Ecreee, 100 feet, chence aarchenly parallel with the west Line of the pare! of land idenuted by
[manent index number 2.060100 o he Oficial Cok Couney Tax Map 250 eet 9th south
"ol west ard Stree thence westerly along sid south line of went Sed Steet to paint 120 fet
‘west of the intersection of said south line of west Sea Street with the easterly right-of-way line of
the Chicago River and Indusrial Railroad Company mainline, chence due north tothe north line of
west rd Steet, thence easterly along said north Line of west 43rd Sereet to the west line ofthe east
7 ofthe northwest 1/4 of said Section 6, thence norcherly along said las described west line to the
‘orthwestely comer ofthe parcel of lind ientified by permanent index number 20-06-100-098 on
the Official Cook County Tax Map; thence easterly along the north line of said parcel of land
Hentiied by permanent index number 20:06-100-094, 660 fet, more or less, to an angle poin in said
line, thence norserly slong the line of said parce of land identified by permanent index aumber 22.
(06-100:098 28 fet, more or les, to an angle pone in said ling thence eatery along the north ine of
said parcel of land ideatiied by permanent index number 20-06-100-098, 655 feet, more or less, {0
‘the point of beginning all in the City of Chicago, Cook Count, filinois.

At
2

— = = =
ag 2 ee

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Balance sheet

Statement of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balanc

Notes to financial statements

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Schedule of cash activict
Schedule of expenditures by statutory code
= s oe ~

Banstey ano Kiener, L.L.P.
Censiries Pusuic AccouNsasrs

‘INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REFORT

‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Tilinois

We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the 43rd and Danen
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois, as of December 31,
1997, and the related statenent of revenues, expenditures and changes in
fund balance for the year then ended. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the City of Chicago's management. Our responsinilicy is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable asgurance about whether the financial statements are free
Of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial state-
ments. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the gard and Danen
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Tilinois, as of December 31,
1997, and the results of its operations and changes in fund balance for the
year’ then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting
Brinciples

our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the
financial statements taken as a whole. the schedule of cash activities on
page 6 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory code on page 7, which
are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago's management, are
Presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part
Sf the financial statements of 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the
City of Chicago, Tllinois. Such additional information has been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the financial statements
and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects when
considered in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole.

Perahy aad Mansr, Lik

Certified Public Accountants

April 13, 1398
BALANCE SHEET

| DECEMBER T1997

assets
cash and investments $359,043
Property taxes receivable 208, 000
| Accrued interest receivable aane
Total assets 282.432
i
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

q Due to other City funds $3,227
Deferred revenue 208, 000
| Fund balance 352.205,
Total Liabilities and fund balance 26.432

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
on a ae

Revenues
Property tax
Interest
Total revenue:

Expenditures
€apital projects

Revenues over expenditures
Fund balance, beginning of year

Fund balance, end of year

$98,105
21408

202,512

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
Note 2

ITY OF curcago, 1

+ Sumary of Significant Accounting Policie

D

ription of Project

‘The 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Area
(Project) was established in August 1994. The area has been
established to finance inprovenents, leverage private investment
and create and retain jobs. Reimbursements, if any, are nade to
the developer as public improverents are completed and pass City
inspection.

Basis of Accounting

‘The Project is accounted for within the special revenue funds
of the city.

‘The financial statements are prepared on the modified accrual
basis of accounting and current financial resources measurement
focus with only current assets and liabilities included on the
balance sheet. Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual, i.e., both
Reasurable and available to finance expenditures of the current
period. Available means collectible within the current period or
Soon encugh thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
period. Expenditures are recorded when the liability is incurred.

Management’ Use of Estimat

‘The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
Rake estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
aseete and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates

Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act Compliance

‘The Project's expenditures include reimbursements for various
eligible costs as described in subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3
Of the Tilinois Tax Increnent Redevelopment Allocation Act and the
Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the Project.
Eligible costs include but are not limited to survey, property”
assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure, financing and
relocation costs

= ee

— 1

Note

NOTES TO EINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(continued)

~ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

cash and Investments

Cash belonging to the city is generally deposited with ¢!
City Treasurer as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago. The
City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City expenditures
which represent a claim for payment when presented to the city
Treasurer. Payment for all City warrants clearing is nade by
checks dram on the City’s various operating bank accounts’

‘The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share responsibility
for investing in authorized investments. Interest earned on pooled
investments is allocated co participating funds based upon their
average combined cash and investment balances. Investments are
Stated at cost or amortized cost, which approxisates market value.

Property Taxe!

Property taxes are susceptible to accrual and recognized as a
receivable in the year levied. Revenue recognition is deferred
unless the taxes are received within 60 days subsequent to
year-end.
a es

cash flows from operating activities
taxes received

cash and investments, end of year

Reconciliation of revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Revenues over expenditures
Adjustments to reconcile revenues over expenditures
fo net cash provided by operating activities
Changes in assets - (increase)
Property tax receivable
Accrued interest receivable
changes in liabilities ~ incre
‘Due to other City funds
Deferred revenue

$98,106
pats

98,122
staan
PeCinrey

$98,286

(208,000)
(31388)

3,227
—a08.o90

Feel rry
| Sade Description
costs of studies, surveys, developnent of plans and
‘specifications, inplenentation and administration
of the redevelopment plan including but not
Limited to staff and professional service costs
for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing Prwred

et
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

(ky DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS,

The following Table K provides the required statement of tax receipts and assessment increments
for the Project Area as outlined in the Executive Order. The amount of incremental property tax
‘equals the incremental EAV from the prior year multiplied by the applicable property tax rates,
Actual receipts may vary due 10 delinquencies, sale of prior years’ taxes, and payment of
delinquencies. See the financial report for actual receipts. The table provides the following
information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales tax increment and state sales tax
increment deposited inthe fund during the prior calendar year;

for 2 utility tax Project Area, the municipal utility tax increment and the net state
utility tax increment amount deposited in the special allocation fund during the prior
calendar year;

3) for a property tax Project Area, (A) the total initial equalized assessed value of
property within the Project Area as ofthe date of designation of the area, and (B) the
total equalized assessed value of property within the Project Area as of the most
recent property tax year;

4) the dollar amount of property taxes on property within the Project Area attributable to
the difference between items (3)(A) and (3)(B) ofthis Section (k).

All terms used in Section (k) relating to increment amounts and assessed value are construed as
in Section 9 of the Ilinois Tax Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act ot the Illinois
Industral Jobs Recovery Law.
os eS

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

TaMtek
DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

rorat
MUNICIPAL STATE MUNICIPAL NET SraTE TOTAL INCREMENTAL
SALESTAX. SALESTAX. UTILITYTAX UTILITYTAX INTIAL 198% PROPERTY.
YEAR INCRE INCREMEN = WAY Taxes tas

wr NAW Naw Naw NAM) S29548S  Ssa6T=D—somu9T

(ORR Tarage
gc =; oe

om

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

() CERTAIN

CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS.

Section (1) provides information about contracts, if any, between the TIF consultant who was
paid by the City for assisting to establish the Project Area and any entity that has or is curently
receiving payments financed by tax increment revenues from the Project Area. The contents of
Section (I) are based on responses to a mail survey. This survey was sent to every consultant
who has prepared at least one redevelopment plan for the establishment of a redevelopment
project area within the City as of December 31, 1997. The Executive Order specifically applies
to contracts thatthe City’s tax increment advisors or consultants, if any, have entered into with
any entity that has received or is receiving payments financed by tax revenues produced by the
same Project Area. No TIF Consultant was paid by the City for assisting to establish the
Project Area.

Is
mf se

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

(mm) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANT

For the Project Area's Special Tax Allocation Fund, this Report provides a certified audit report
reviewing compliance with the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act or the
Ilinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate. The audit was performed by an
independent public accountant, cenfied and licensed by the State of Illinois, and in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards established by the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. The Report contains a statement from the accountant indicating compliance
‘or non-compliance with the Hlinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act ofthe Ilinois
Industral Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate

16
‘The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Hlinois

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the balance sheet of 43r4 and Damen Redevelopment Project of the city of
Chicago, iilinois as of December 31, 1997, and the related statement of
Fevenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for the year then ended,
and have issued our report thereon dated April 13, 1998

In connection with cur audit, nothing cane to our attention that caused us
tO believe chat the Project failed to comply with the regulatory provisions
in ‘Subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Tilinois Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (o) of Section 11-74.6-10 of the
Tilinois Induserial Jabs Recovery Law as they relate to the eligibility for
Goste incurred incidental to the implementation of the 43rd and Daren
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois.

This report is intended for the information of the City of chicago’
managenent. However, this report is a matter of public record, and i
Aistribution is not Limited.

Penalty tnd Kisnr, LLP.

certified public Accountants
April 13, 1998

Sent teen encase > “Deawrmcnectcr
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

ATTACHMENT
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

1998 Annual Report
43rd and Damen
Redevelopment Project Area
Pursuant to Mayor's
Executive Order 97-2

JUNE 20, 1999

City of chicago
Richard M. Daley, Mayor
a

Department of Planning
and Development

Christopher R. Hill
commisaioner
111 North Lasalle street

Chicago. Tllinois 60602

(312) 744-4190

(312) 744-227 1 (FAX)

http://www .ci.chi. it.us

Hl: IL 01 ~~ GCE !! CA(;o TO GETHER

gune 20, 1999

‘The Honorable Mayor Richard 4. Daley, Members

of the City Council, and Citizens of the City of
chicago

City of chicago

121 N. LaSalle street

chicago, Illinois 60602

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The attached information for the 43rct and Damen
Redevelopment Project

Aea, along with 62 other individual reports, is
presented pursuant to the

Mayoral Executive Order 97-2 (Executive Order)
regarding annual

reporting on the City's tax increment financing (TIF)
districts, The City's

TIF program has been used to finance neighborhood and
downtown

Amprovenents, leverage private investment, and create
and retain jobs

throughout Chicago

Pursuant to the Executive Order, the Annual Report,
presented in the form

of the attached, will be filed with the city clerk
for transmittal to the City

Council and be distributed in accordance with the
Executive order.

Sincerely,

Christopher R. Hill

Commiseioner

Department of Planning and Development

~pvge: (>

Walter K. Knorr
chief Financial officer
S!g ERNST & YouNG LLP

June 20, 1999

Me. christopher R. HilL

Commisaione:

Department of Planning and Development
121 N. Lasalle st.

chicago, Illinois 60602

Commissioner Hill:

Suite 400

111, "orth canal

chicago. illinois 60606

Phone: 31 :
~ losed is the required annual report for the 43rct
and Dam en Redevelopment Project Area,

which we compiled at the direction of the Department
of Planning and Development pursuant to

the Mayor's Executive Order 97-2. The contents are
based on information provided to us by the

Chicago Departments of Planning and Development,
Finance, and Law Department. We have

not audited, verified, or applied agreed upon
Procedures to the data contained in this report,
Therefore, we express no opinion on its accuracy or
conpletencss.

The report includes the City's data methodology and
interpretation of Executive Order 97-2 in

addition to required information. The tables in this
report use the same lettering system as the

a7"! 2000
Executive Order in order to allow the reader ~o
locate needed information quickly.

It has been a pleasure to work with representatives
from the Department of Planning and

Development and other City departments.

very truly yours,

S"EMLLP

Eenet & Young LLP

Ernst & Young 1tP is a menber of Ernst & Young
International, Ltd,

=

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

ANNUAL REPORT- 43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WITH SECTION (4) OF THE MAYOR'S EXECUTIVE ORDER 97-2
PURPOSE OF REPORT

(a) GENERAL DEscRIPTION

PAGE
7
(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND
e
(c) coPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

@
(d) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND
REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS .....00.cseseeeeee

@
(e) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT (S)

3
(£) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT
a0

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY coNTRACTS

a
(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT

Fry
(4) bescrtprion oF PRopERTY
Fry

) FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY
COMPTROLLER. 2. ceeeeseeeseseesesseeensees

a4
(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT

as
(2) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIE
CONSULTANTS... .0.eceeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeceneeee
a6
(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT
PUBLIC ACCOUNTAND woe eeeeeeeeeeseeeees

fe

(n) ATTACHMENT- REDEVELOPMENT

ae
FY

rial

pte

a

Gard and damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

Purpose of Report:

The purpose of the Annual Report for the 43rd and
Damen Redevelopment Project Area (Report) is

to provide information regarding the City of Chicago
(City) tax increment financing (TIF) districts in
existence on December 31, 1998, as required by the
Mayor's Executive Order 97-2 (Executive

Order). This Report covers the 43rd and Danen
Redevelopment Project Area (Project Area)
Methodology:

In the process of providing information about the
Project Area, care was taken to follow the
organization of the Executive Order to allow the
reader to locate needed information in an efficient
manner. The Report reflects only TIF economic
activity during 1998, also referred to in this report

as "the prior calendar year." As outlined below,
Several assumptions were made concerning certain
required information.
(a) General Description
The general boundaries of the Project Area are
described and illustrated in a map. However, in order

to provide ease of reading, only major boundary
streets are identified. For exact boundaries, the
interested reader should consult the legal
description of the Project Area boundaries found in
che

Redevelopment Plan (attachment)

(b) Date ofDesignation and Termination

For purposes of this Report, the date of termination
is assumed to occur 23 years from the date of
designation, the maximum duration currently allowed
under the Tax Increment Allocation

Redevelopment Act.

(c) Copy of Redevelopment Plan

The Redevelopment Plan, as amended (if applicable),
for the Project Area is provided as the

Attachment at the end of the Report.

ari

™

1

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(qd) Description of Intergovernmental and
Redevelopment Agreements

Table D describes agreements related to the Project
Area which are either intergovernmental

agreements between the City and another public entity
oF redevelopment agreements between the

City and private sector entities interested in
redeveloping all or a portion of the Project Area.
me

date of recording of agreements executed by the City
in 1998 and filed with the cook county
Recorder of Deeds is included in Table 0 (if
applicable).

(e) Description of TIF Projects

Table £ describes each TIF project in the Project
Area that has already received approval by the
Community Development Commission, and which received
TIP financing during 1998. Those

Projects in discussion, pre-proposal stage with a
developer, or being reviewed by Conmunity
Development Commission staff are not "projects" for
purposes of the Report. The amount budgeted

for project costs and the estimated timetable were
obtained from the Project Area's

Antergovernmental or redevelopment agreements, if
such agreenents exist. Table £ specifically

I) the nature of the project;

2)

3)

fn

5)

the budgeted project cost and the amount off1F
assistance allocated to the project;

the estimated timetable and a statement of any change
in the estimate during the prior

calendar year;

total City tax increment project expenditures during
the prior calendar year and total City

tax increment project expenditures to date;

a description of all TIF financing, including type,
date, terms, amount, project recipient,

and purpose of project financing.

2

Ps

sie
ad

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(£) description of all TIF pebt Instruments

Table F describes all TIF debt instruments related to
the Project Area in 1998. It should be noted

that debt instruments issued without a security
pledge of incremental taxes or direct payments from
incremental taxes for principal and interest are not
included in Table F, as such instruments do not
qualify as TIF debt instruments as defined by the
Executive Order. Table F includes:

1) the principal dollar anount of TIF debt

2) the date, dollar amount, interest rate, and
security of each sale of TIF debt instrunents

and type of instrument sold;

3) the underwriters and trustees of each sale;
4) the amount of interest paid from tax increnent
during the prior calendar year (1998)

5) the anount of principal paid from tax increment
during the prior calendar year (1998) .

(g) Description of city Contracts

Table G provides 2 description of City contracts
related to the Project Area, executed or in effect
during 1998 and paid with incremental tax revenues.

In addition, the date, names of all contracting
parties, purpose, amount of compensation, and
percentage of compensation paid is included in the
table. Table G does not apply to any contract or
contract expenditure reported under (e) (5) of
Section 4 of the Executive Order.

City contracts related to the Project Area are
defined as those contracts paid from TIF funds, not
related to a specific TIF project, and not elsewhere
reported. Items include, but are not Limited to,
payments for work done to acquire, dispose of, or
lease property within a Project Area, or payments
to appraisers, surveyors, consultants, marketing
agents, and other professionals. These services may
affect more than one project in a Project Area and
are not otherwise reported. Table G does not

report such noncontractual cost items as Recorder of
Deeds filing fees, postage, telephone service,

etc. City contracts include term agreements which are
city-wide, multi-year contracts that provide

goods or services for various City departments.

2

vue

ghkew

Fe)

a

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report
(n) Summary of Private and Public Investment activity

Table H describes each TIF project in the Project
Area that has been executed through an
Antergovernmental or redevelopment agreement in Z
998, or that has been approved by the

Community Development Conmission in 1998.

Yo the extent this information is available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development on a
completed project basis, the table provides a summary
of private investment activity, job creation,

and job retention within the Project Area and a
summary for each TIF project within the Project

Table H contains the final ratio of private/public
investment for each TIF project. The private
investment activity reported includes data from the
intergovernmental or redevelopment

agreement (s) and any additional data available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development.

Other private investment activity is estimated based
on the best information available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development.

(i) Description of Property Transactions

Information regarding property transactions is
provided in Table 1 to the extent the City took or
divested title to real property or was a lessor or
lessee of real property within the Project Area.
Specifically, the Executive Order requires
descriptions of the following property transactions
occurring within the Project Area during 1998:

1) every property acquisition by the city through
expenditure of TIF funds, including the

location, type and size of property, name of the
transferor, date of transaction, the

compensation paid, and a statement whether the
property was acquired by purchase or by

eminent domain;

2) every property transfer by the City as part of the
redevelopment plan for the Project

Agea, including the location, type and size of
property, name of the transferee, date of
transaction, and the compensation paid;

3) every lease of real property to the City if the
rental payments are to be made from TIF

funds. Information shall include the location, type
and size of property, name of lessor,

date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of
rental, and the rental amount;
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

4) every lease of real property by the city to any
other person as part of the redevelopment

Plan for the Project Area.

Information shall include the location, type and size
of

property, nane of lessor, date of transaction,
Guration of lease, purpose of rental, and the

rental amount.

G) Financial Summary Prepared by the City Comptroller

Section (4) provides a 1998 financial summary for the
Project Area audited by an independent

certified public accounting firm. These statenents
were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These statements
include:

1) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at
the beginning of the prior calendar year;

2) cash receipts by source and transfers deposited
into the fund during the prior calendar

year;

3) transfer credits inte the fund for the Project
Area during the prior calendar year;

4) expenditures and transfers from the fund, by
statutory category, for the Project Area

during the prior calendar year;

5) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at
the conclusion of the prior calendar year

(k) Description of Tax Receipts and Assessment
Table K provides the required statement of tax
receipts and assessment increments for the Project
Agea as outlined in the Executive Order

The amount of incremental property tax equals the
incremental EA V from the prior year multiplied by
the applicable property tax rates. Actual receipts
may vary due to delinquencies, sale of prior years"
taxes, and payment of delinquencies. see the
Financial report for actual receipts. Table K
provides the following information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales
tax inerenent and state sales tax

Ancrenent deposited in the fund during the prior
calendar year;

5

ng

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

41998 Annual Report

2) for a utility tax Project Area, the municipal
utility tax increment and the net state utility

tax increment anount deposited in the special
allocation fund during the prior calendar

year;

3) for a property tax Project Area, (A) the total
initial equalized assessed value of property

within the Project Area as of the date of designation
of the area, and (B) the total

‘equalized assessed value of property within the
Project Area as of the most recent

property tax year;

4) the dollar anount of property taxes on property
within the Project Area attributable to

the difference between items (3) (A) and (3) (8) above.

ALL terme used in Table K relating to increment.
amounts and equalized assessed value (EA V) are
construed as in Section 9 of the illinois Tax
Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act of the
Ilinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law.

Unless otherwise noted, the EA V and property tax
information were obtained from the Cook County
Clerk's Office. All sales tax information was
obtained from the City of Chicago.

(2) certain Contracts of TIF Consultants

Table L provides information about contracts, if any,
between the TIF consultant who was paid by

the City for assisting to establish the Project Area
and paid by any entity that has received or is
currently receiving payments financed by tax
increment revenues from the Project Area.

me

contents of Table L are based on responses to a mail
survey. This survey was sent to every

consultant who has prepared at least one
redevelopment plan for the establishment of a
redevelopment project area within the City in 1998.
The Executive Order specifically applies to
contracts that the City's tax increment advisors or
consultants, if any, have entered into with any
entity that has received or is receiving payments
Financed by tax revenues produced by the sane
Project Area.

(m) Compliance Statement Prepared by an Independent
Public Accountant

As part of the audit procedures performed by
independent accountants, certain compliance tests
performed related to the Project Area. Included in
the Annual Report is an audit opinion indicating
compliance or non-compliance with the Illinois Tax
Increnent Allocation Redevelopment Act or the
U1linois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, a
appropriate. Section (m) provides this statenent.

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(a) GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The Project Area is generally bounded on the north by
‘a boundary Line which is approximately

one block north of West 43rd Street, on the east by 2
boundary Line between South Danen and

South Wolcott avenues, on the south by 2 boundary
Line which runs between 45th Street and 43rd

Street, and on the west by 8 ¢ 0 Railroad. The map
below illustrates the location and general
boundaries ofthe Project Area. For precise
boundaries, please consult the legal description in
che

Redevelopment Plan (attachment)
~ foe

a5th Stnoat
An
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

The Project Area was designated by the Chicago city
Council on August 3, 1994. The Project

Agea may be terminated no later than August 3, 2017
(c) coPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

The Redevelopment Plan for the Project Area, as
amended (if applicable), is contained in this,
Report (attachment)

(d) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND
REDEVELOPMENT

During 1998, no new agreements were executed in the
Project Area.

»

"
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(e) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT(S)

During 1998, there were no tax increment project
expenditures within the Project Area,
i
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(£) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS
During 1998, there were no TIF debt instruments
outstanding’ for the Project Area.

10

a

”

»

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY conTRACTS
DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS RELATED TO THE PROJECT
‘CONTRACTING

AMOUNT OF

COMPENSATION

crTY oF cHIcAGo

EXECUTION

PURPOSE

PAID IN 1998

Bansley & Kiener

1998

Studies/Plan/ Admin

31,250

Eenet € Young

1998

Studies/Plan/ Admin

34,616

City TIP Program Administration

1998

Studies/Plan! Admin
34,671
a
‘COMPENSATION
oot

oot

oot

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
41998 Annual Report
(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

During 1998, there was no infonnation available
regarding public or private investment activity

in the Project Area

Fey

ua

i

‘The year 2000 information on pages 7 and 8 is not a
required part cf ~he
Financial statenents, but is supplementary
information required by the

Governmental Accounting Standards Board, and we did
not audit and do not

express an opinion on such information

Further, we were unable to apply to

the information certain procedures prescribed by
professional standards

because of the unprecedented nature of the year 2000
issue and ite effects,

and the fact that authoritative measurement criteria
regarding the status of

remediation efforts have not been established.

In addition, we do not

provide assurance that the City of Chicago is or will
become year 2000

compliant, that the City of Chicago's year 2000
remediation efforts will be

successful in whole or in part, or that parties with
which the city of

Chicago does business are or will become year 2000
compliant

our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming
an opinion on the

financial statenents taken as a whole.

The schedule of cash activities on

page 9 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory
code on page 10, which

are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago's
managenent,

presented for purposes of additional analysis and are
not a required part of

the financial statements of 43rd and Damen
Redevelopment Project of the City

of Chicago, Illinois. such additional information has
been subjected to the

auditing procedures applied in the audit of the
financial statements and, in

our opinion, is fairly stated in all material
respects when considered in
relation to the financial statements taken as a
whole.

certified Public Accountants

May 4, 1999

z
crTY oF cHicaco, 1uLiNors

43RD &-D DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSETS

Gash and investment

Property taxes receivable

BALANCE SHEETS

DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997
Accrued interest receivable

total assets

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Due to other city funde

Deferred revenue

Total Liabilities

Fund balance

Total liabilities and fund balance
1998

1997

5291, 354

$159,043

138, 000

2105, 000

7,673

3,389

$437,027
$267,432
3

4,671

3

3,229

136, 958

2105, 000

141, 629

108, 227

295, 398

159, 205

$437,027

$267,432

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
financial statements.

Property tax

crty oF cuicaco,

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATEMEL-JTS OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES
AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997
1998

$139,057

7,675

otal revenues

146, 720

Expenditures

capital projects

Revenues over expenditures

10,537

136, 193

Fund balance, beginning of year

Fund balance, end of year

159, 205

~2951298
1997

5 98,106

3,405

201, 511

2237

98,284

60,921

159,205

‘The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
financial statements.

a
~
wna

crTY oF cizcaco, ruLiNors

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 ~ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Project

The 43rd and Damen Tax increment Redevelopment
Project Area

(Project) was established in August 1994.

The area has been

established to finance improvenents, leverage private
and create and retain jobs.

Reimbursements, if any, are made to

the developer for project costs,

as public improvements are
completed and pass City inspection,
Basis of Accounting

The Project is accounted for within the special
revenue funds

of the city.

The financial statements are prepared on the modified
accrual

basis of accounting and current financial resources
focus with only current assets and liabilities
included on the

balance sheet,

Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual,
ive., both

measurable and available to finance expenditures of
the current

period

available means collectible within the current period
s00n enough thereafter to be used to pay Liabilities
of the current

period

Expenditures are recorded when the liability is
incurred.

Fixed

funds but,

purchased

includes the

assets are not capitalized in the general operating
instead, are charged as current expenditures when
The General Fixed Asset Account Group of the City
capital assets, if any, of the Project.

Managenent's Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with

generally accepted accounting principles requires
managenent to

make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported anounts of
assets and Liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and

Liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the

Feported anounte of revenues and expenses during the
reporting

period

Actual resulta could differ from those estimates.
Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allecation Act
compliance

The Project's expenditures include reimbursements for
eligible costa as described in subsection (a) of
Section 11-74.4-3

of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment
Allocation Act and the

Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the
Project.

Eligible costs include but are not limited te survey,
property

assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure,
Financing and

relocation costs,

ut

as

wt

aul

CITY oF cizcaco, ruLiNors

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

Note 1 ~

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
(Continued)
cash and Investment
Cash belonging to the City is generally deposited
with the

City Treasurer as required by the Municipal code of
chicago.

me

city Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City
expenditures

hich represent a claim for payment when presented to
the city

Payment for all City warrants clearing is made by
checks drawn on the City's various operating bank
The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share
responsibility

for investing in authorized investments. Interest
‘earned on pooled

investments is allocated to participating funds based
upon their

average conbined cash and investment balances.

on January 1, 1998, the City adopted GASB statenent
No. 31,

“Accounting and Financial Reporting for Certain
Investments and for

External Investment Pools. *

Accordingly, the city values its

investments at fair value, or amortized cost .
Property Taxes

Property taxes are

receivable in the year

unless the taxes are

year-end.

susceptible to accrual and recognized as a

levied

Revenue recognition is deferred

received within

60

cays

subsequent to
(G3.L100" #N#1)
NOE L-OdNE X~.LN3N2~ddns G3~zn03~

can
YeaR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSG-E (UNAUDITED!

The City's operations, like those of many other
business entities, may be

impacted by the inability of certain computer
Programs and electronic systems

with embedded microprocessor chips to recognize
calendar dates beyond the

year 1999. Unless auch programs and microprocessors
are modified or replaced

Prior to the year 2000, they may not function
properly after 1999,

‘The City formed an executive committee in May 1998,
to oversee possible

City-wide year 2000 impacts.

‘The Department of Business and Information
Services has been charged with managing the city's
year 2000 project.

the

year 2000 issue is covered within the scope of the
City's year 2000 project

The year 2000 project is divided into stages as
follows:

Awareness Stage ~

Establishing a budget and project plan for dealing
with the year 2000 issue.

Assessment Stage ~ Identifying the mission critical
systems, equipment
and individual components for which year 2000
compliance is needed.

Remediation Stage - Making changes to systems and
equipment

Validation/testing Stage - Validating and testing the
changes that were

made during the remediation stage.

The City committed approximately $28.2 million and
$32.0 million in 1998 and

1999, respectively, for the repair and replacement of
year 2000 compromised

systens.

As of December 31, 1998, the city entered into
contracts for

approximately $17.7 million for the test plan
development, audit stages and

upgrade of Certain software programs

Mission Critical Applications

The city has identified one computer application, the
Chicago Accounting and

Purchasing System, as critical to conducting the
operations for year 2000

compliance.

As of December 31, 1998, the city completed the
awareness and

assessment stages, and the remediation stage was in
process for the above

mission critical component. This mission critical
component is still subject

to the validation/testing stage.

The City-wide completion of all stages is

scheduled for September 1999,

Embedded systems

The awareness stage, including an inventory of
‘embedded systems has been

completed.

Baseline assessnent of mission critical functions
involving

embedded systems was substantially completed by the
end of the first quarter
of 1999,
‘The City has retained outeide consultants to manage
and implenent

completion of this aspect of the year 2000 project by
the end of September

1999)

a

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE (UNAUDITED)
(Continued)

other Considerations

“s

‘The City also initiated an assessment of mission
critical vendors, which is

being performed by 2 consultant with oversight from
the executive committee

to plan for continuity in the city's supply chain.
Contingency planning for

mission critical systems and other elements of the
year 2000 project is

Scheduled to Be completed by the end of September
1999)

The above description of the stages of work to
address the year 2000 issues

is not a guarantee those systems will be year 2000
compliant

Although the

City is currently on schedule to mest its objectives
for year 2000

compliance, there is no assurance that compliance
will be achieved in a
timely manner.
Further, if the City successfully addresses its year
2000

issues, there ie no assurance that any other entity
or governnental agency

(including governmental organizations or entities
that provide essential

infrastructure) with which the City electronically
interacts will be year

2000 compliant

At this time, the City can not determine the
potential

impact of such noncompliance on the business and
financial condition of the

results of its operations.

SCHEDULE OF CASH ACTIVITIES
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997

cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received

Payments for capital projects

Interest received

Increase in cash and investments

cash and investments, beginning of year
cash and investments, end of year
Reconciliation of revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Revenues over expenditures

Adjustments to reconcile revenues over
expenditures to net cash provided
by operating activities
Changes in assets ~
(increase)

Property tax receivable
Accrued interest receivable
Changes in liabilities - increase
Due to other city funde
Deferred revenue

1998

1997

$138,015

3

98,106

(92 093)

3,389

16

232,311

98, 122

159, 043

60,921

$251,254 9 159,043
$136,193

(33, 000)

(4,284)

a, haa

ai, ose

3

98,284

(205, 000)

(3 11389)

3,229

105, 000

5132, 311

3

98,122

ef

ErLtit

uit
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES BY STATUTORY
cO-E

Code Description

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
specifications, implenentation and administration
of the redevelopment plan including but not

Limited to staff and professional service costs

for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing
1998

1997

$10, 537

$3,227

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OFT AX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT
INCREMENTS

DESCRIPTION OFT AX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

STATE
SALES TAX
SALES TAX
1997

INCRENENT

INCREMENT

INCREMENT

INCREMENT

1998

NAL (ZD

NAL (ID

NAL (D

NAL (I)

35,395,485,

36, 840, 621,

(2) A. ~ not applicable.
a5

INCREMENTAL

PROPERTY

TAKES 1997

$137,873

3
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(2) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIE CONSULT ANTS

During 1998, no TIF consultant waa paid by the city
for assisting to establish the Project Area

and paid by any entity that has received or is
currently receiving payments financed by tax
revenues from the Project Area.
16

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT
puaic

ACCOUNTANT

uv

teeeP ne!
Bansiey and Kiener, L.L.P.

certified Public Accountants

+Esta6(tefiu{ 1922

125 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE CHICAGO. T1LANOIS 60606-4496
312/263-2700 FAX 312/263-6935

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor

Members of the City Council

City of Chicago, I1linois

\enrtienB--s2 mele e:082-8

= 3 tAApsci--w\,¥,

ACSERT 9 £-1ANNIGAN
SERARO J PATER

JONCENT % GUZALOO

T-MoraY 2); 20N

We have audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards,

the balance sheet of 43rd and Damen Redevelopnent
Project of the city of

chicago, Illinois as of December 31, 1998, and the
related statement of

revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance
for the year then

‘ended, and have issued our report thereon dated May
4, 1999.

Ih connection with our audit, nothing came to our
attention that caused us

to believe that

che

Project
failed to
comply with the

regulatory

provisions in Subsection

@

of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Z1linois Tax

Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection

(0
of Section

11-74.6-10 of the 1linois Industrial Jobs Recovery
law as they relate to

the eligibility for costs incurred incidental to the
implementation of the

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the city of
chicago, Tilinois.

‘This report is intended for the information of the
city of Chicago's

management.

However, this report is a matter of public record,
and ite

distribution is not limited.

May 4, 1999

AVERICAN INSTITUTE OF CPA'S

ILLINOIS CPA SOCIETY

MOORE STEPHENS NORTH AMERICA. INC

wand LLP.

Certified Public Accountants

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report
a

fet

a

a

1)
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
a8

a

a

aa

a

Ft

43rd AND DAMEN

Prepared for:

The City of Chicago

By:

camiros, Ltd.

april, 1994

This plan is subject to review and may be revised
after comment and public hearing

i
i
a
1, INL'RopUCTION

1

2. REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION

A. ELIGIBILITY OF LE PROJECT AREA FOR OESIGNATION AS
CONSERVATION ARE.A

@

4. COMMUNITY PLANNING OBJECTIVES/REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
GOALS AND 0 B.JECTIV'ES

3

5. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

a

6. REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Fey

7

GENERAL LAND USE PLAN AND MAP

a

8, DESIGN CONTROLS AND CRITERIA

15

9. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PRO .JEer FINANCING
16
10. PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING LAE PLAN

a
LL, CITY OF CHICAGO COMMITMENT TO FAIR. EMPLOYHENT

22

Aa
FIGURE 1

5
FIGURE 2

6
FIGURE 3

7
FIGURE 4

14

TABLE 1. ELIGIBLE REDEVELOPMENT PRO .JEer COSTS
- a7

TABLE 2. INITIAL EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE OF

Fr)
Ft
INTRODUCTION

43RD AND DAMEN

This document presents the recommended Tax Increment
Redevelopment Plan and Project for the

43rd and Damen industrial area located in the
Stockyards Industrial Corrider on Chicago's south
side. The plan and project respond to problem
conditions including the presence of numerous
blighting factors, and a lack of private investment
within the study area, and reflect the commitment
by the City of Chicago to improve and revitalize the
Redevelopment Project Area. Private

development and investment in the area cannot be
reasonably expected to occur without the

leadership and assistance of the City including the
adoption of this Redevelopment Plan and Project,

and the use of tax increment financing

Tax Inerenent Financing

In adopting the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act, the illinois state Legislature
found,

chat

* .., there exist in many municipalities within this
state blighted, conservation and industrial park
conservation areas; that the conservation areas are
rapidly deteriorating and declining and may

soon becone blighted areas if their decline is not
checked. .. It is hereby found and declared that

in order to pronote and protect the health, safety,
morals, and welfare of the public, that blighted
conditions need to be eradicated and conservation
measures instituted, and that redevelopment

of such areas be undertaken ... The eradic:ition of
blighted areas and treatment and improvement
of conservation areas and industrial park
conservation areas is hereby declared to be essential
the public interest."

In order to use the tax increment financing
technique, 2 municipality must first establish that
the

proposed redevelopment project area meets the
statutory criteria. for designation as a "blighted

a "conservation area" or an "industrial conservation
area". A redevelopment plan must then be

Prepared which describes the development or
redevelopment program intended to be undertaken to
reduce of eliminate those conditions which qualified
the redevelopment project area as a "blighted

area", "conservation area", or combination thereof,
of "industrial conservation area", and thereby
enhance the tax bases of the taxing districts which
extend into the redevelopment project area.
Redevelopment projects are defined as any public or
private development projects undertaken in
furtherance of the objectives of the redevelopment
plan

The legislation requires that each redevelopment plan
set forth in writing the program which will be
undertaken to accomplish the municipality's
redevelopment objectives. The Act also states that
‘Wo redevelopment plan shall be adopted unless .... (
1 J The muniespality finds that the

redevelopment project area on the whole has not been
subject to growth and development

through investment by private enterprise and would
not be reasonably be anticipated to be

developed without the adoption of the redevelopment
plan, (2) The municipality finds that the
redevelopment plan and project conform to the
comprehensive plan for the development of the
municipality asa whole, or for municipalities with a
population of 100,000 of more, regardless of
when the redevelopment plan and project was adopted,
the redevelopment plan and project

either: (1) conforms to the strategic economic
developnent or redevelopnent plan issued by the
designated planning authority of the municipality, or
(1) includes land uses that have been

Ft

approved by the planning commission of the
municipality, (3) The redevelopment plan

establishes the estimated dates of. completion of the
redevelopment project and retirenent of

obligations issued to finance redevelopment project
costs. Those dates shall not be more than 2.3

years from the adoption of the ordinance approving
the redevelopment project area, if the

ordinance was adopted on or after January 15, 1981,
and not more than 35 years if the ordinance

was adopted before January 15, 1981 or if the
municipality is subject to the Local Government
Financial Planning and Supervision act .... , (4) The
municipality finds, in the case of an industrial
Park conservation area, also that the minicipality is
a labor surplus municipality and that the
implementation of the redevelopment plan will reduce
unemployment, create new joba and by

the provision of new facilities enhance the tax base
of the taxing districts that extend into the
redevelopment project area. (5) If any increnental
revenues are being utilized under Section
8(a)I1) oF 8(a) (2) of this Act in redevelopment
project areas approved by ordinance after January 1,
1986, the municipality finds (a) that the
redevelopment project area would not reasonably be
developed without the use of su~ incremental
revenues, and (b) that such incremental revenues
will be exclusively utilized for the development of
the redevelopment project area.”

Pursuant to the provisions contained in the Act, the
City of Chicago has authorized an evaluation of
whether a portion of the 4.3rd and Dam en industrial
area qualifies for designation as a "blighted area
and, if the area so qualifies, the preparation of a
redevelopment plan for the redevelopment project
area in accordance with the requirements of the Act
The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project Area

The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project Area is
located within the Stockyards Industrial

corridor on Chicago's south side. The Redevelopment
Project Area is generally bounded by the east

Line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section
6-38-14, then east along the south right-of-way line
of

43rd Street to a point approximately 130 feet west of
the west right-of-way line of Wolcott Avenue,

then generally southwest along the Chicago River and
Industrial Railroad Company right-of-way to

the east right-of-way line of Danen Avenue, then west
to the west right-of-way line of Damen

Avenue, then north approximately 110 feet, then
southwest along the southeastern property Line of
tax parcel 20-06-301-014, then generally nonh along
the western property line of said parcel,

continuing north along the western property line of
tax parcel 20-06-301-010 to a point

approximately 250 feet south of the south right-of
way Line of 42¢d Street then west approximately

100 feet, then north approximately 250 feet to the
south right-of-way Line of 43rd street, then west
approximately 1,060 feet, then nonh to the nonh
right-of-way line of 43rd street, then east to the
west line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section
6-38-14, then north a distance of approximately

625 feet, then east a distance of approximately 660
feet, then north a distance of approximately 28

feet, then east 2 distance of approximately 655 feet
to the east line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of
Section 6-28-14 then south to the point of beginning.
The 42rd and Danen Redevelopment Project

Area is approximately 35.96 acres in size and is
bordered on the east by the Stockyards Tax

Increnent Financing District which was established in
1989)

The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project Area has not
been subject to growth and development

by private enterprise. An analysis of conditions
within the redevelopment project area indicates that
it is appropriate for designation as a redevelopment
project in accordance with the State of Illinois

tax increment financing legislation.

The analysis disclosed that the area was originally
developed without the benefit or guidance of

overall conmunity planning, and that the area does
not meet basic standarde and guidelines for
contemporary development. As a result of these and
other factors, the area is characterized by
conditions that warrant the designation of the entire
area as a "blighted area” under the definitions

set fonh in the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act of the State of Illinois
(hereinafter

referred to as the "Act™).

The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Plan and Project
have been formulated in accordance with the
Provisions of the Act. This document is a guide to
all proposed public and private actions in the
Redevelopment Project Area.

2
2
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION

The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project Area is
generally bounded by the east line of the east

1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14, then east along
the south right-of-way line of 43rd Street to a
point approximately 130 feet west of the west right~
of-way line of Wolcott Avenue, then generally
southwest along the Chicago River and Industrial
Railroad Company right-of-way to the east right~
of-way Line of Damen Avenue, then west to the west
right-of-way line of Damen Avenue, then

snorth approximately 110 feet, then southwest along
the southeastern property line of tax parcel 20-
06-301-014, then generally nonh along the western
property line of said parcel, continuing north

along the western property line of tax
parcel20-06-301-010 to a.point approximately 250 feet
south

of the south right-of-way line of 43rd street then
west approximately 100 feet, then north
approximately 250 feet to the south right-of-way line
of 43td Street, then west approximately 1,060

feet. then north to the north right-of-way line of
43rd street, then east to the west line of the east
a2

of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14, then nonh a
distance of approximately 625 feet, then east a
distance of approximately 660 feet, then north a
distance of approximately 28 feet, then east a
distance of approximately 655 feet to the east line
of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14

then south to the point of beginning. The boundaries
of the Redevelopment Project Area are shown
in Figure I. The Redevelopment Project Area is
approximately 35.96 acres in size.

A legal description of the Redevelopment Project Area
is included as appendix A of this docunent.

The proposed redevelopment project area includes only
contiguous parcels, qualifies for designation

as a “blighted area" and is not less that 1-1/2 acres
in aggregate as required by the Act. The proposed
Redevelopment Project Area includes only that area
which is anticipated to be substantially

benefited by the proposed redevelopment project,
improvements.

The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project Area is
located in the Stockyards Industrial Corridor.

The Redevelopment Project Area presently consists of
24 parcels of vacant and inproved industrial
property under multiple ownerships. Five tax parcels
in the study area are railroad property. A review

of City zoning and base maps indicates that this area
once contained many rail spurs which no

longer exist.

the predominant land use in the Redevelopment Project
Area ie warehouse and distribution. other

industrial uses surround the redevelopment project
area. The present land use distribution is shown

in Figure 2,

The Redevelopment Project Area is presently zoned as
a M2-2 General Manufacturing District east

of Danen and as a M3-5 Heavy Manufacturing District
weet of DaneniFigure 3)

The Dry Storage Corporation is the largest propeny
owner in the Redevelopment Project Area. Dry

Storage holdings include approximately 620,000 square
Feet of warehouse space divided anong six

buildings on slightly less than 18 acres of Land.
Truck access to the Redevelopment Project Area is
provided via 43rd street. Danen Avenue is

Elevated through the Redevelopment Project area and
does not provide direct truck access. Pedestrian
access is provided by two stairways from Damen Avenue
to 43rd Street below. 43rd street is paved,
however, other public and private rights-of-way
serving the study area exist as unimproved dirt and
gravel roadways.

2

oa
‘The area was developed in two major waves. The
earliest buildings were built in the early 1900's and

include two large multi-story warehogses and two
smaller industl'W buildings. These buildings are
located in the southeast quadrant of the study area
and were designed to take advantage of the

humerous rail spurs that served the area. The
remaining buildings in the study area were built
between 1962 and 1974. it was during thie period that
the area assumed its current identity as a

strong warehouse and distribution district.

a

1k,

om

cee

fe,

ww
ra

anit.

EUGIRU.ITY OF THE PROJECT AREA FOR DESIGNATION AS A
BUGHTED
The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project Area on the
whole has not been subject to growth and

development through investment by private enterprise.
Based on the conditions present, the area is

not likely to be developed without the adoption of
the redevelopment plan.

In February, 1994 a study was undertaken to establish
uhether the’ proposed redevelopment project

area is eligible for designation as a blighted area
in accordance with the requirements of the "Real
Property Tax Increment Allocation Development Act."
This. analysis concluded that the area

qualifies as a blighted area.

Of the 14 factors cited in the Act, @ factors are
Present within the 42rd and Danen Redevelopment.
Project Area. Five are required in order for the area
to be designated as blighted. The following
blighting factors were found to be present within the
Redevelopment Project Area;

age

Deleterious land use or Layout

Depreciation of physical maintenance

Excessive land coverage

Inadequate Utilities

Lack of community planning
obsolescence

Several unused railroad parcels were also found to be
Present in the study area

The specific basis upon which eligibility for
designation as a blighted area was established, is
presented in the 43rd and Damen Tax Increnent
Redevelopment Project Eligibility Report.

@

a

el

a
COMMUNITY PLANNING OBJECTIVES/REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
oats

The proposed 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan and
Project are consistent with the City of

Chicago's industrial development policies articulated
in the City's CORRIDORS OF INPUSTRIAL

OPPORTIINITY: A Plan for Industry in Cbjc.ago's West
Side and companion documents prepared for

Chicago's North and South Sides. As stated in these
industrial policy documents:

* the creation and preservation of jobs for chicago
residents is a major economic development

goal of the city -.. In support of its job creation
goal, the City's industrial land use policy seeks to
provide opportunities for synergy between related
industrial activities, to minimize the conflicts
between industrial and other land uses, and to
maximize the benefits of public investment in

capital programming and related industrial

The adopted industrial land use policy is supported
by a nine point implementation strategy:

2, adopt an industrial land use plan which designates
viable and well defined industrial
corridors
2. Maintain the industrial integrity of the corridor
by requiring that proposals for non-industrial
developent and proposals for rezoning to non-
industrial districts be approved as planned
developments.

3. Continue the selective use of the Planned
Manufacturing District mechanism as a tool for
assuring stability of land use-in the city's
industrial areas,

4, Amend the provisions of the Chicago Zoning
Ordinance applicable to the manufacturing

zoning districts for a classification of uses and
associ2ted development standards which are

congruent with the needs of modern industrial
developnent

5. Rezone the non-industrial zoned properties within
the corridor and, as necessary, existing
industrially zoned properties consistent with the
appropriate modified u-zoning category.

6. Give priority consideration to the operational
needs of existing industrial uses when

reviewing the rezoning of industrial property outside
of industrial corridors

7. Establish an interdepartmental program to
identify. and regularly update the infrastructure
needs of industry throughout the City.

8. Feature the industrial park opportunities
identified in the land use plan in citywide programs
to attract, expand and retain industry. Identify land
in industrial coridore for industrial park
development and create prograns to assist the private
sector in the development of these

sites.

9. Identify Rail Access Development Areas and foster
a closer relationship between the

railroads and the City to enhance the development and
marketing of rail properties and

services.

°
1
The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Pian and Project
will enhance the city's ability to achieve its
goals. The Proposed Redevelopment Plan and Project is
consistent with adopted industrial.-

development policies because it maintains the
industrial integrity of the corridor and will
facilitate

industrial expansion elsewhere in the city.
Redevelopment Plu Goals and Object: ives

The overall goal of the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment
Plan is to stimulate private industrial

investment in the area in order to enhance property
values and attract and retain industrial users

Juho will provide jobs and enhance Chicago's
industrial property tax base. The City's goals and
objectives of encouraging development and private
investment will be realized by:

Achieving significant new industei.29 growth in a
declining area,

Undertaking necessary site development to meat the
needs of identified new industrial users.
Implementing a plan that addresses the redevelopment
costs of land acquisition, site

Amprovenents, and other activities that may be
necessary to encourage industrial growth of the
Redevelopment Project Area.
Improving public facilities that may include, but are
not limited to, roadway inprovenents

Entering into redevelopment agreements and by
exercising other powers set forth in the Act as

the City of Chicago deens necessary in order co.
Amplenent the 428d and Damen Redevelopment

Plan and Project

10

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
The City proposes to achieve its redevelopment goals
and objectives for the Redevelopment Project

Area through the use of public Financing techniques,
including taX increment financing, and by
undertaking some or all of the following actions:

1. Assembling sites for redevelopment through
appropriate land assenbly techniques. The City

may determine that it 4e necessary to participate in
property acquisition or may use other

neans to induce transfer of such property to a
Private <ieveloper. Land acquisition activities

are intended to facilitate private investment and
upgrading of existing buildings within the
Redevelopment Project Area.

2. Providing public improvenents and facilities which
may include, but are not limited to

surface right-of-way improvements

3. Entering into redevelopment agreements for the
rehabilitation or construction of private
Amprovenenta in accordance with the Redevelopment

un
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The 43rd and Danen Redevelopment Project is intended
to facilitate the expansion of the Farley

Foods, USA warehouse facilities within the city of
Chicago. This expansion will allow Farley to
increase production at its Chicago plant, and thus
employment. The project involves the acquisition
and improvement of several large warehouse facilities
within the Redevelopment Project Area.

In order to carry out the public improvements needed
to stimulate private investment in the

redevelopment project area and industrial expansion
in other-areas of Chicago, some or all of the
following activities and actions may be undertaken.
Development strategies/Redevelopnent Activities

site Assembly

Yo achieve the renewal of the 43rd and Damen
Redevelopment Project Aiea, property identified in
Figure 1, may be acquired by purchase or long term
lease and either sold or leased for private
redevelopment or sold, leased or dedicated for
construction of public improvements. The City may
determine that to meet the objectives of this
Redevelopment Plan, properties scheduled for
acquisition in the plan may be exempted from
acquisition without amendment of this

Redevelopment Plan
Provisiolg of Public Improveneuts 1UJd Facilities
Adequate public improvenents and-facilities may be
Provided to service the entire Redevelopment

Project Area. Public improvenents and facilities may
include, but are not limited to roadway

improvements such as viaduct pavenent replacenent. In
the event that the City determines that

construction of certain improvements is not
Financially feasible, the City may reduce the scope
of

the proposed improvements.

Redevelopneut Agreeneuts

Terms of conveyance for land acquired as part of this
redevelopment project shall be incorporated in
appropriate disposition agreements. Such agreements
may contain more specific controls than those

stated in this Redevelopment Plan

2

u,

GENERAL LAND USE PLAN AND MAP
This Redevelopment Plan and the proposed
Redevelopment Project conform to the City of
Chicago's

adopted industrial land use policy.

The General Land Use Plan, Figure 4, identifies land
uses expected to result from implementation of

this plan. The major land use category included
within the Redevelopment Project Area is industrial
warehouse and distribution, The land use plan is
intended to provide a guide for future land use
improvements and developments within the Project
‘The proposed 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project
envisions the consolidation and resubdivision

of the property within the redevelopment project area
as needed to facilitate industrial use of the

site.

It 48 anticipated that City expenditures for
redevelopment project costs will be carefully staged
reasonable and proportional basis to coincide with
expenditures for redevelopment by private
developers. + +

a

Bre

ceo

DESIGN CONTROLS AND CRITERIA
It ig the intent of this redevelopment plan that the
Project area be used as a conveniently Located
warehouse and distribution district. The following
design and development objectives should be used

to guide new development and improvements within the
Redevelopment Project Area, and apply

equally to all areas included in the land use plan.
These design objectives are consistent with the
recommendations contained in the City of Chicago's
CORRIDORS Of INDUSTRIAL

OPPORTIONITY: A Plan for Indusm on Chicagds West.
side.

Provide an adequate supply of appropriately located
employee parking within the

Redevelopment Project Area.
Facilitate the provision of off-street leading
facilities that meet the needs of modem

industrial users,

Ensure that new development complies with the Zoning
Ordinance regulations within the

Redevelopment Project Area.

Undertake roadway and traffic improvements as needed
s0 that the property functions as a

modem, well-integrated industrial area for industrial
users who rely on modem distribution

techniques.

a5

a

REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT FINANCING
Tax increnent financing can only be used when desired
private investment would not reasonably be

expected to occur without. public assistance. The
enabling legislation allowing the use of tax
increment financing in Illinois sets fonh the range
of public assistance that may be provided

Eligible Project Costs

Redevelopment project costs mean and include the sum
total <Jf all reasonable or necessary costs

incurred or estimated to be incurred, and any such
costs incidental to this Redevelopment Plan and
Redevelopment Project. Eligible costs may include,
without limitation, the following:

Ft
costs of studies and surveys, development plans and
specifications, implenentation and

administration of the redevelopment including but not
Limited to sta and professional

service costs including but not limited to
architectural, engineering, legal, marketing,
Financial, planning or other special services;

2
Property assenbly costs, including but not limited to
acquisition of land and other property,

real or personal, or rights or interests therein,
demolition of buildings, and the clearing and
grading of land;

3

costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction, repair or
renodeling of existing public or private

buildings and fixtures;

a

costs of the construction of public works or
improvements;

5

costs of job training and retraining projects,

6

Financing costs, including but not limited to all
necessary and incidental expenses related to

the issuance of obligations and which may include
Payment of interest on any obligations

issued under the Act accruing during the estimated
period of construction of any

redevelopment project for which such obligations are
issued and for not exceeding 36

months thereafter and including reasonable reserves
related thereto;

7

ALL or 2 portion of a taxing district's capital costs
resulting from the Redevelopment Project

necessarily incurred or to be incurred in furtherance
of the Redevelopment Plan and Project,

to the extent the municipality, by written agreement,
accepts and approves such costs;
a

Relocation costs to the extent that the city
determines that relocation costa shall be paid or
that the city is required to make payment of
relocation costs by State or Federal law;

8

Payment in Lieu of taxes;

10. Costs of job training, advanced vocational
education or career education, including but not
Limited to courses in occupational, semi-technical or
technical fields leading directly to

‘employment, incurred by one or more taxing districts
as provided in the Act;

16

n
AL. Interest costs incurred by a developer related to
the construction, renovation or

rehabilitation as provided in the Act.

The cost of consuucting new privately-owned buildings
is not an eligible redevelopment project cost,

unless specifically authorized by the Act

Estimated Project Costs

A range of activities and improvements will be
required to implement this tax increment financing
Project. The proposed eligible activities and their
costs are briefly described below and shown in

Table 1.

Acquisition of property for sale or lease for private
redevelopment including appropriate relocation
Estimated cost: $3,000,000
construction of public improvements and facilities
which may include, but are not Limited to

viaduct pavenent replacenent or other roadway
improvenents. These improvenents are intended

to improve access to the Redevelopment Project Area
and stimula-e private investment.

Estimated cost: $40,000

Planning, legal, surveys, fees and other related
development costs. This budget element provides for
studies and survey costs for planning and
implementation of the project, including planning and
legal

fees, financial and special service costs .
Estimated cost: $60,000

Contingencies pursuant to provisions of the Act,
Estimated cost: $100,000

The estimated gross ¢ligible project cost is
$3,200,000. The total project cost including public
and

private components is estimated at $11,000,000.

ALL project cost estimates are in 1994 dollars. any
bonds issued to finance portions of the project,
may include an amount of proceeds sufficient to pay
customary and reasonable charges associated

with issuance of such obligations as well as to
provide for capitalized interest and reasonably
required reserves. Adjustments to estimated line
items are expected and may be made without
amendment to the Redevelopment Plan as long as the
total project expenditures remain unchanged.

Table 1

ELIGIBLE REDEVELOPMENT PRO.m_CT COSTS

Land Assembly

$3,000,000,

Public Improvements and Facilities

40,000

Planning, Legal, Surveys and Related Development
costs

60,000

contingencies
100, 000
$3,200,000
Fe
a

a

Sowces of Funds

Funds necessary to pay for redevelopment project
costs and municipal obligations which have been
issued to pay for such costs are to be derived
principally from tax increment revenues and proceeds
from municipal obligations which have as their
revenue source tax increment revenue

The tax increment revenue which will be used to fund
tax increment obligations and redeveloprent

Project costs shall be the incremental real property
taxes. Incremental real property taX revenue is
attributable to the increase in the current equalized
assessed value of each taxable lot, block, tract oF
parcel of real propeny in the Redevelopment Project
Agea over and above the initial equalized

assessed value of each such property in the
Redevelopment Project Area. Other sources of funds
hich may be used to pay for redevelopment costs and
obligations issued, the proceeds of which are

used to pay for such costs, are land disposition
Proceeds, state and federal grants, investment

and such other sources of funds 311d revenues as the
municipality may from tine to time deem

appropriate,
The City may issue general obligation bonds secured
by the full faith and credit of the city for the
purpose of financing redevelopment project costs:
Such bonds may be payable from ad valorem taxes
levied against all taxable propeny in the City of
chicago.

Development of the 42rd and Damen Redevelopment
Project Area would not be reasonably expected

to occur without the use of the incremental revenues
provided by the Act. Redevelopment project

costs include those eligible project costs set forth
in the Act and not the full range of development
costs associated with the proposed Redevelopnent
Project. The majority of development costs will

be privately financed. Tax increment financing or
other public sources will be used only to the
extent needed to secure commitments for private
redevelopment activity.

Nature and. Tum of Obligations to be tesued

The City of Chicago may issue obligations secured by
the tax increment special tax allocation fund
established for the project area pursuant to the Act
oF such other funds or security as are available to
the City by virtue of its powers pursuant to the
Ilinois state Constitution.

ALL tax increment financing obligations issued by the
City of Chicago in order to implement this
Redevelopment Plan and Project shall be retired
within twenty-three (23) years from the adoption of
the ordinance approving the Redevelopment Project
Area. The final maturity date of any such
obligations which are issued may not be later than
twenty (20) years from their respective dates of
issue. One of more series of obligations may be sold
at one or more times in order to implement this
Redevelopment Plan. We anticipate that the anounts
payable in any year as principal and interest on

all obligations issued by the City pursuant to the
Redevelopment Plan and Act shall not exceed the
amounts projected to be available from the tax
increment revenues and from auch bond sinking
funds of other sources of funds ae may be provided by
ordinance.

Revenues shall be used for the scheduled and/or early
retirement of obligations, and for reserves,

bond sinking funds and redevelopment project costa,
and, to the extent that the real property tax
increment is not used for such purposes, shall be
declared surplus and shall then becone available

for distribution annually to taxing districts in the
Redevelopment Project Area in the manner

provided by the Act

Most Recent Equalized Assessed Valuation

As of the 1992 tax year, the total equalized assessed
valuation for the Redevelopment Project Area is
35,450,274. The equalized assessed valuation for each
of the parcels contained within the 43rd and

Dam en Redevelopment Project Area is presented in
Table 2.

The initial equalized assessed valuation is subject
to final determination and verification by the

Cook County Assessor. After verification, the correct
Figure shall be certified by the County Clerk of
cook County, illinois

Table2

INITIAL EQUAUZED ASSESSED VALUE OF REDEVELOPMENT PRO!
20-06-100-038
2o-06-1 ()(). (281
29.-06..1 00-083
20-06-100-090
29.-06..1 00-091
20-06-100-092
29.-06..1 00-097
20-06-100-098
20-06-301-004
20-06-301-005
20-06-301-007
20-06-301-009
20-06-301-010
20-06-301-014
29.-06..30 1-015-6002
29:06...400-00
20-06-400-005
20-06-400-006
20-06-400-009
20-06-400-010
20-06-400-011.
20-06-400-017
20-06-400-022
20-06-400-023
total
Anticipated Equalized Assessed Valuation
1992 Equalized
Assessed Value
R.tilroad

375.3, 715,
1,126,923

25, 766

26.3, 628

22,825

918, 057
Railroad

33,272

114, 846
98, .391
-3.38, 011

an, 269

15,869

26,827

35, .326

125, 436

68,831

315, 854

24,209

280,114

Railroad

196, 505

Railroad

35, 450,274

once the project has been completed and the property
is fully assessed, the equalized assessed

valuation of real property within the Redevelopment
Project Area is estimated at $7,978,654. This,
estimate has been calculated assuming that the
Redevelopment Project Area will be developed in
accordance with the general land use plan described
in Chapter 7 of this docunent

The estimated equalized assessed valuation assumes
that the assessed value of property within the
study area will increase substantially as a result of
Planned acquisition and improvements involving
several large warehouse buildings within the
Redevelopment Project Area.

calculation of the projected equalized assessed
valuation 1s based on several other key assumptions,
including: 1) redevelopment of the 43rd and Dam en
Redevelopment Area will occur in a timely

manner; and 2) the application of a State Multiplier
of 1.9953 to the projected assessed value of
property within the study area. The projected state
Multiplier was calculated by averaging the state
Multipliers for Cook County for the most recent five
year period (1988 through1992) .

Fin.au.c:W Impact on Taxing Districts
Because the proposed Redevelopment Plan and Project
involves acquisition and improvenent of

existing buildings, and not new construction, the
financial impact of the redevelopment project is
expected to be negligible. No increased demands for
services from any taxing disuict affected by the
Redevelopment Plan and Project are anticipated,

as

a
>3
con
i

Although no short-term financial or service dt:mand
impacts are expected to result from adoption of

this Redevelopment Plan and Project, it is hoped that
additional private investment will be attracted

to the area over the life of the Redevelopment
Project. Since the specific nature of such

cannot be determined at this time, the financial
impacts on the various taxing jurisdictions or
increased service denands resulting from such new
development cannot be quantified. However,

because of current zoning, the existing land use
pattern, and the city's adopted industrial land use
policy, any new development is likely to be
industiial in nature, As a reult, increased service
demands are likely to be limited to utilities either
provided by the City of chicago or the

Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago. The City will monitor and assess the
Financial impact or increased service demands on
affected taxing jurisdictions and develop specific
plans to address any such impacts that may occur over,
the life of the Redevelopment Project.
Real estate tax revenues resulting from increases in
the equalized assessed value over and above the
certified initial equalized assessed value
established with the adoption of this Redevelopment
Plan

and Project will be used to pay eligible
redevelopment costa in the area. At the end of such
period,

the real estate tax revenues attributable to the
increase in the equalized assessed value over the
certified initial equalized assessed value will be
distributed to all taxing districts levying property
taxes against property located in the Redevelopment
Project Area. Successful implementation of this
Redevelopment Plan and Project is expected to result
in new development and private investment on

a scale sufficient to overcome blighted conditions
and substantially improve the long-term economic
value of the area.

completion of the Redevelopment Project and
Retirement of Obligations to Ftma.nce Redevelopment
Project Costs

This Redevelopment Project will be completed on or
before 2 date twenty-three 12.3) years from the
adoption of the ordinance deaigin.ating the
Redevelopment Project Area. The City of Chicago
expects

that the Red-elopment Project will be completed
sooner than the maximun time Limit set by the

20
ee

ao.

PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING THE PLAN

This 43rd and Danen Tax Increment Redevelopment
Project and Plan may be amended pursuant to
the provisions of the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act.

a.
CITY OF CEELCAGO COMMITMENT TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT

AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

As part of any Redevelopment Agreement entered into
by the City and the private developer, both

will agree te establish and implement an affirmative
action program that serves appropriate sectors

of the City of Chicago.

With respect to the public/private development's
internal operations, both entities will pursue
‘employment practices which provide equal opportunity
to all people regardless of sex, color, race or
creed. Neither party will countenance discrimination
against any employee or applicant because of

sex, marital status, national origin, age, or the
presence of physical handicaps. These
nondiscriminatory practices will apply to all areas
of employment, including hiring, upgrading and
promotions, termination's, compensation, benefit
Programe and educational opportunities
Anyone involved with employment or contracting
activities for this Redevelopment Project will be
responsible for conformance with this policy and the
compliance requirements of applicable state
and federal regulations
The City and the private developers involved in the
Amplenentation of this Redevelopment Project
will adopt a policy of equal employment opponunity
and will include or require the inclusion of this
statement in all contracts and subcontracts at any
level for the Project being undertaken in the
Redevelopment Project Area. Any public/private
partnership established for the development project
in the Redevelopment Project Area will seek to ensure
and maintain a working environment free of
harassment, intimidation, and coercion at all sites,
and in all facilities at which employees are
assigned to work. it shall be specific:dly ensured
that all on-site supervisory personnel are aware of
and carry out the obligation to maintain such a
working environment, with specific attention to
minority and/or fenale individuals. The partnership
will utilize affirmative action to ensure that
business opportunities are provided and that job
applicants are employed and treated in a
nondiscrininatory manner
Underlying this policy is the recognition that
successful affirmative action programs are important
to the continued growth and vitality of the city of
chicago.
2

1
a
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE 43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT

PROJECT AREA
That part of Section 6, Township 38 nonh, Range 14,
east of the third principal meridian, described

as follows: beginning at a point on the east line of
the nonhwest 1/4 of said section 6, said point

being the northeasterly comer of the parcel of land
identified by permanent index number 20-06-100~

098 on the Official Cook County Tax Map; thence
southerly along said east line of the nonhwest

1/4 and along the east line of the southwest 1/4 of
said Section 6 to the south line of west 43rd

Street; thence easterly along said south Line of west
43rd Street to the westerly line of the stockyards
Andusteial-conmercial redevelopment project area
pursuant to the ordinance passed by the city

Council of the City of Chicago on March 8, 1989, said
point being 130 feet, more or less, west of the

weet line of south Wolcott Avenue; ‘thence southerly
and southwesterly along the westerly line of

said stockyards industrial-conmercial redevelopment
project area, being also the track right-of-way

Line, to an intersection with the center Line of
vacated west 44th Street, said point being 176.27
feet

west of the west line of south Wolcott Avenue; thence
easterly along said center line of vacated west

adth Street, 26.27 feet to the weaterly line of said
stockyards industrial-conmercial redevelopment
Project areai thence southwesterly along the westerly
Line of said stockyards industrial-commercial
redevelopment project area, being also the track
right-of-way line, to the Gast line of south Damen
Avenue; thence due west to the east line of the
southwest 1/4 of said Section 6, thence northerly
along the east line of said southwest 1/4 to the
southeasterly line of the parcel of land identified
by

permanent index number 20-06-301-014 on the official
Cook county Tax Map, thence

southwesterly along the southeasterly line of the
parcel of land identified by permanent index

umber 20-06-301-014, being also the track right-of~
way Line, to the moat southerly comer of said

parcel of land; thence northerly along the westerly
Line of said parcel of land identified by permanent
index nunber 20-06-301-014, being also the track
right-of-way line, to the south line of the parcel of

land identified by permanent index number
20-06-301-010 on the Official Cook County Tax map;
thence westerly along said last described south line
to the west line of said parcel of land identified
by permanent index number 20-06-201-010; thence
northerly along said last described west Line,

being also the track right-of-way line, to the
northwest comer of said parcel of land identified by
permanent index nunber 20-06-301-010; thence westerly
parallel with the south line of west 43rd

Street, 100 feet; thence northerly parallel with the
west line of the parcel of land identified by
permanent index number 20-06-301-009 on the Official
Cook County Tax Map, 250 feet to the south

Line of west 43rd Street; thence westerly along said
south Line of west 42rd Street to a point 120 feet
west of the intersection of said south line of west
43rd Streat with the easterly right-of-way line of
the Chicago River and Industrial Railroad Company
mainline; thence due north to the north line of

west 43rd street; thence easterly along said nonh
Line of west 43rd Street to the west Line of the east

1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of said section 6, thence
nonherly along said last described west line to the
northwesterly coner of the parcel of land identified
by permanent index number 20-06-100-098 on
the Official Cook County Tax Map; thence easterly
along the north line of said parcel of land
identified by permanent index number 20-06-100-098,
660 feet, more or lees, to an angle point in said
Line; thénce northerly along the line of said parcel
of land identified by permanent index number 20-
06-100-098, 28 feet, more or less, to an angle point
in said line; thence easterly along the north Line of

said parcel of land identified by permanent index
number 20-06-100-098, 655 feet, more or less, to
the point of beginning, all in the City of Chicago,
Cook County, 11linois

wl

e

CETY OF ciicao. 1LLINoIS

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

FINANCIAL REPORT

DECEMBER 31. 1997

a
CITY oF cHicaco, ruLiNors

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT ON THE

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Balance sheet
Statement of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance

Notes to financial statements
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

,
pugs

sed

Schedule of cash activities

Schedule of expenditures by statutory code

14

oa

P=)

CERTIFIED Puai..1C ACCOUNTANTS
125 SOUT!" WACKER ORIVE
CHICAGO, TLLINOIS 60606-4496
AREA <:0D1: 312 283-2700

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor

Members of the City Council

City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the
43rd and Damen

Redevelopment Project of the City of chicago,
Illinois, as of December 31,

1997, and the related statement of revenues,
expenditures and changes in

fund balance for the year then ended

These financial statements are the

responsibility of the City of Chicago's management.
our responsibility is

to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally
accepted auditing

standards

Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to

obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free

of material misstatement

An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
‘evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial state~

An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and

significant estimates made by management, as well as
‘evaluating the overall

Financial statenent presentation.

fe believe that our audit provides a

reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly,

in all material respects, the financial position of
the 42d and Damen
Redevelopment Project of the City of chicago,
Tlinois, as of December 31,

1997, and the results of its operations and changes
in fund balance for the

year

then

ended

conformity

with

generally accepted

accounting

principles.

our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an
opinion on the

financial statements taken as a whole.

The schedule of cash activities on

page 6 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory
code on page 7, which

are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago's
management, are

presented for purposes of additional analysis and are
not a required part

of the f-inancial statements of 42rd and Damen
Redevelopment Project of the

City of Chicago, I1linois. such additional
information has been subjected

to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the financial statement

and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material
respects when

considered in relation to the financial statenents
taken as a whole,

Certified Public Accountants

april 13, 1998
CITY oF cHicaco, ruLiNors
43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
cash and investment

Property taxes receivable

BALANCE SHEET

DECEMBER 31, 1997

ASSETS

Accrued interest receivable

total assets

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Due to other city funde

Deferred revenue

Fund balance

Total liabilities and fund balance
eS

$159,043

105, 000

3,389

3267, 432

3

3,229

105, 000

159, 205

$267,432

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
financial statements.
ae
CITY oF cHzcaco, 1uLNors

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES IN
FUND BALANCE

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

Property tax

total revenues

Expenditures

capital projects

Revenues over expenditures

Fund balance, beginning of year

Fund balance, end of year

3 98,106

3,405

201, 511

3,229

98,284

60,921

3159, 205

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
financial statements.

1

fa

n

Lhe

CETY OF cHicaGo! 1uLINors

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 ~ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Project

The 43rd and Damen Tax increment Redevelopment
Project Area

(Project) was established in August 1994.
The area has been
established to finance improvenents, leverage private
and create and retain jobs.

Reinbursenents, if any, are made to

the developer as public improvements are completed
and pass city

inspection.

Basis of Accounting

The Project is accounted for within the special
revenue funds

of the city.

The financial statements are prepared on the modified
accrual

basis of accounting and current financial resources
focus with only current assets and liabilities
included on the

balance sheet,

Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual,
ive. , both

measurable and available to finance expenditures of
the current

period

Available means collectible within the current period
s00n enough thereafter to be used to pay Liabilities
of the current

period

Expenditures are recorded when the liability is
incurred.

Managenent's Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with

generally accepted accounting principles requires
managenent to

make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported anounts of

assets and Liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assete and
Liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the

Feported anounte of revenues and expenses during the
reporting

period

Actual resulta could differ from those estimates.
Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act
compliance

The Project's expenditures include reimbursements for
eligible costa as described in subsection (a) of
Section 11-74.4-3

of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment
Allocation Act and the

Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the
Project.

Eligible costs include but are not limited te survey,
property

assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure,
Financing and

relocation costa,

rae

va

\

CITY oF cHzcaco, ruLiNors

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

Note 1 ~ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
(Continued)
cash and Investment

a

cash belonging to the City is generally deposited
with the

City Treasurer as required by the Municipal code of
chicago.

me

city Comptroller issues warrants for authorized city
expenditures

hich represent a claim for payment when presented to
the city

Payment for all City warrants clearing is made by
checks drawn on the City's various operating bank
The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share
responsibility

for investing in authorized investments. Interest
‘earned on pooled

investments is allocated to participating funds based
upon their

average conbined cash and investment balances.
stated at cost of amortized cost, which approximates
market value

Property Taxes

Property taxes are

receivable in the year

unless the taxes are

year-end.

Susceptible to accrual and recognized as a

levied

Revenue recognition is deferred

received within

60

days subsequent to

:
SCHEDULE OF CASH ACTIVITIES
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received

Interest received

Increase in cash and investments

cash and investments, beginning of year
cash and investments, end of year
Reconciliation of revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Revenues over expenditures

Adjustments to reconcile revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Changes in assets ~

(increase)

Property tax receivable

Accrued interest receivable

Changes in liabilities - increase

Due to other city funde

Deferred revenue

ae

3

98,106

16

98,122

60921

5 159,043
3
98,284
(205, 000)
(3,383)
3,229
105, 000
98,122
ality

Pry

,

a

SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES BY STATUTORY CODE

Code Description

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
specifications, implenentation and administration
of the redevelopment plan including but not
Limited to staff and professional service costs

for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing
cm

$3,227

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OFT AX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT
INCREMENTS.
The following Table K provides the required statement
of tax receipts and assessment increments

for the Project Area as outlined in the Executive
Order. The anount of incremental property tax

equals the incremental EA V from the prior year
multiplied by the applicable property tax rates.
Actual receipts may vary due to delinquencies, sale
of prior years’ taxes, and payment of

delinquencies. See the financial report for actual
receipts. The table provides the following
information:

1) for a sales tax Project area, the municipal sales
tax inerenent and state sales tax

Ancrenent deposited in the fund during the prior
calendar year;

2) for a utility tax Project Area, the municipal
utility tax increment and the net’ state

utility tax increment amount deposited in the special
allocation fund during the prior

calendar year;

3) for a property tax Project Area, (A) the total
initial equalized assessed value of

property within the Project Area as of the date of
Geeignation of the area, and (B) the

total equalized assessed value of property within the
Project Area as of the most

recent property tax year;

4) the dollar anount of property taxes on property
within the Project Area attributable to

the difference between items (3) (A) and (3) (8) of
this section (k)

ALL terms used in Section (k) relating to increment
amounts and assessed value are construed as

in Section 9 of the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation
and Redevelopment Act or the Illinois

Industrial Jobs Recovery Law

a
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report
DESCRIPTION OFT AX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCRDIENTS

STATE

SALES TAX
SALES TAX

1: "1/cReMeNT
INCREMENT
INCREMENT
INCREMENT
1997

NAL (ID
NAL (I)
Nala)
Nala)

(1) WA. -not applicable,
a4
INCREMENTAL
1996
PROPERTY
TAXES 1996
35.395, 485,
35.967, 528,
396.497

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1997 Annual Report

(2) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIE CONSULT ANTS

Section (1) provides information about contracts, if
any, between the TIF consultant who was

paid by the city for assisting to establish the
Project Area and any entity that has or is currently
receiving payments financed by tax increment revenues
from the Project Area. The contents of

Section (I) are based on responses to a mail survey.
This survey was sent to every consultant

who has prepared at least one redevelopment plan for
the establishment of a redevelopment

project area within the City, as of December 31,
1997. The Executive Order specifically applies

to contracts that the City's tax increment advisors
or consultants, if any, have entered into with

any entity that has received or ie receiving payments
financed by tax revenues produced by the

sane Project Area. No TIF Consultant was paid by the
City for assisting to establish the

Project Area.

a5

Fi
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT
PuBLic

ACCOUNTANT

For the Project Area's Special Tax Allocation Fund,
this Report provides a certified audit report
reviewing compliance with the Illinois Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act or the

I1linois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, a8
appropriate,

The audit was performed by an

independent public accountant, certified and licensed
by the State of Illinois, and’ in accordance

with generally accepted auditing standards
established by the Anerican Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. The Report contains a statement
from the accountant indicating conpliance

of non-compliance with the Illinois Tax Increnent
Allocation Redevelopment Act or the Illinois
Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate.

16

~

ives

a

nt
Bansley and Kiener, 1.1.2.
certilled Public Accountants

‘E.std6fioua 19 22

125 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60605-4496
312/263-2700 FAX 312/263-6935

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor

Members of the City Council

City of Chicago, Illinois

SERNAPO ..; SUU..:VAN : PB ~

RICHAAO J QuINN. CPA

FRAMC 9 GAQ.ZAL..A. © Poses

TYE.ELL.cPA

JOHKW SANEWII2 .cPA

L'Homas A. CERWIN CPA

STEPHEN A PANFIL. CPA

MICHAEL 0 HI.IELS. CP A,

ROEIERTI ~CPA

caPucE.cPA

AOBS'!T!' J HANNIGAN. CPA.

GERARD J PATE!!. CPA.

VINCENT 1.4 GUZAI..00. ¢ PA

MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES

TIMOTHY A ME.J4.CAZ~<Y

oRV!O W ReCL-<uONO

We have audited, in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards,

the balance sheet of 43rd and Damen Redevelopnent
Project of the city of

chicago, T1linois as of December 31, 1997, and the
related statement of

revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance
for the year then ended,

and have issued our report thereon dated April 13,
1998

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our
attention that caused us
to believe that the Project failed to comply with the
regulatory provisions

in Subsection (q)

of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Z1linols Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (0) of
Section 11-74.6-10 of the

Ulinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law as they relate
to the eligibility for

costs incurred incidental to the implementation of
the 42¢d and Damen

Redevelopment Project of the City of chicago,
qlinois

This report is intended for the information of the
city of Chicago's

management.

However, this report is a matter of public record,
and ite

distribution is not limited.

april 13, 1998

AVERICAN INSTITUTE OF CPA'S

ILLINOIS CPA SOCIETY

MOORE STEPHENS NORTH I.MERICA. INC

esa

certified Public Accountants

BANSLEY ANO KIENER. L.L.P

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
fy
