| 1998 Annual Report
! 43" and Damen
| Redevelopment Project Area

Pursuant to Mayor’s
Executive Order 97-2

JUNE 30, 1999

eng

Dayenn

City of Chicago
Richard M. Daley, Mayer

Department of Planning
and Development

Christopher R. Hill
Commissioner

12{ North LaSalle Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
(312) 744-4190

(312) 744-2271 (FAX)

http://www.ci.chi.il.us

June 30, 1999

The Honorable Mayor Richard M. Daley, Members

of the City Council, and Citizens of the City of Chicago
City of Chicago

121 N. LaSalle Street

Chicago, Illinois 60602

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The attached information for the 43" and Damen Redevelopment Project
Area, along with 63 other individual reports, is presented pursuant to the
Mayoral Executive Order 97-2 (Executive Order) regarding annual
reporting on the City’s tax increment financing (TIF) districts. The City’s
TIF program has been used to finance neighborhood and downtown
improvements, leverage private investment, and create and retain jobs
throughout Chicago.

Pursuant to the Executive Order, the Annual Report, presented in the form
of the attached, will be filed with the City Clerk for transmittal to the City
Council and be distributed in accordance with the Executive Order.

Sincerely,

Christopher R. Hill
Commissioner
Department of Planning and Development

[Ae COOW

Walter K. Knorr
Chief Financial Officer

Ell ERNST& YOUNG LLP a@ Suite 400 @ Phone: 312 879 2000

1717 North Canal
Chicago, Hlinois 60606

pepstatanecttnaigd

June 30, 1999

Mr. Christopher R. Hill

Commissioner

Department of Planning and Development
121 N. LaSalle St.

Chicago, Ulinois 60602

iy
i

4

i

i

3

Commissioner Hull:

E: closed is the required annual report for the 43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area,
which we compiled at the direction of the Department of Planning and Development pursuant to
the Mayor’s Executive Order 97-2. The contents are based on information provided to us by the
Chicago Departments of Planning and Development, Finance, and Law Department. We have
not audited, verified, or applied agreed upon procedures to the data contained in this report.
Therefore, we express no opinion on its accuracy or completeness.

The report includes the City’s data methodology and interpretation of Executive Order 97-2 in
addition to required information. The tables in this report use the same lettering system as the
Executive Order in order to allow the reader to locate needed information quickly.

a It has been a pleasure to work with representatives from the Department of Planning and
Development and other City departments.

Very truly yours,
¥ LLP

Ernst & Young LLP

ate
ce
i
i
3

Seana

Ernst & Young itp is a member of Ernst & Young international, Ltd.
! 43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
: 1998 Annual Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1 ANNUAL REPORT - 43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA IN COMPLIANCE
: WITH SECTION (4) OF THE MAYOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDER 97-2
PAGE
PURPOSE OF REPORT....csssssssssssssssssssssssssnsssussnssssessssessssssessseesssseesseseeneeeeeceenececeeececeeanecesnesssensnsnssssnsstnnnsanannnnnnnnenastent 1
METHODOLOGY sssssessssssssssssssssssnssnsensssconececceceeeeseeesseseusmunmnssnnsssssssscesseeceesecsesseessuetmmtmtnanenssasensnsssceceeeeeessesseeenees 1
a (a) GENERAL DESCRIPTION.....sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssvscssssessssssessssesssesseeeeeceecseeeceeceeneecencessesaseesesssssnnnssnnnsnnnnaninaeenesees 7
- (b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION o0.....csssssssssssssssssssesseseseececcececceeceecensnessernnnsnnnnnntninnntanesnanseensessns 8
| (c) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN ....ccscssssssssssssssstsssnensssnsssnsnsneceececeececcseseeeseeseseeesgeeseusmnmanasnnasesnsseeeeeeeeeeeestee 8
“3 (d) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS .........esessseeseeeee 8
|
| (©) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT(S) cssesessesssesssssssssssssssssssesssssssssesesceneesececceeceeccenceecenceenneesnssnsenasnnnnnnsnenennsnaanansanent 9
\ (f) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS ..0......ssssssssssssssssssssssessssesssecsssceeseceececceeceserneccnnnnsnnnnnsnestnnennnnnnnanst 10
(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS ...cccssssssssssssssssssnsnsssessssssneeseesceceeceeseseessuimmeantnnnsnnnsssesseseeecessseseesussnentee ll
(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY ...ccscsssssscsssscsssssssesssssessssenssnssnsnansnnansnnnssne 12
(i) DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS Q0...escsssssssssssssssessssseseeeeeeeceececceeecescesnsnernnscennnnnnnnssnnnanseneananeanttn 13
(j) FINANCIAL SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY COMPTROLLER.......cs:ssssssssssssssssssesterssnestsssstanstinsnsnentee 14
” (k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS. ......csccscssssssesssesseesssssssssnssssssnnesssenten 15
(1) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS ...sssssessssesssssssssssssssssssssseesseessseceseeceeceecennscecenneecetrnnsnennnnnaneanenes 16
(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT ......ssvessseseee 17
(n) ATTACHMENT - REDEVELOPMENT PLAN.Q....ccssssessssssssssssseeceesssessseessstsestsssstsstnnnstsnsnesnsssseseceeceeeeeeeseesesenneee 18
|
!
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

Purpose of Report:

The purpose of the Annual Report for the 43" d and Damen Redevelopment Project Area (Report) is
to provide information regarding the City of Chicago (City) tax increment financing (TIF) districts in
existence on December 31, 1998, as required by the Mayor’s Executive Order 97-2 (Executive
Order). This Report covers the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area (Project Area).

Methodology:

In the process of providing information about the Project Area, care was taken to follow the
organization of the Executive Order to allow the reader to locate needed information in an efficient
manner. The Report reflects only TIF economic activity during 1998, also referred to in this report
as “the prior calendar year.” As outlined below, several assumptions were made concerning certain
required information.

(a) General Description

The general boundaries of the Project Area are described and illustrated in a map. However, in order
to provide ease of reading, only major boundary streets are identified. For exact boundaries, the
interested reader should consult the legal description of the Project Area boundaries found in the
Redevelopment Plan (Attachment).

(b) Date of Designation and Termination

For purposes of this Report, the date of termination is assumed to occur 23 years from the date of
designation, the maximum duration currently allowed under the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act.

(c) Copy of Redevelopment Plan

The Redevelopment Plan, as amended (if applicable), for the Project Area is provided as the
Attachment at the end of the Report.
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(d) Description of Intergovernmental and Redevelopment Agreements

Table D describes agreements related to the Project Area which are either intergovernmental
agreements between the City and another public entity or redevelopment agreements between the
City and private sector entities interested in redeveloping all or a portion of the Project Area. The
date of recording of agreements executed by the City in 1998 and filed with the Cook County
Recorder of Deeds is included in Table D (if applicable).

(e) Description of TIF Projects

Table E describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has already received approval by the
Community Development Commission, and which received TIF financing during 1998. Those
projects in discussion, pre-proposal stage with a developer, or being reviewed by Community
Development Commission staff are not “projects” for purposes of the Report. The amount budgeted
for project costs and the estimated timetable were obtained from the Project Area’s
intergovernmental or redevelopment agreements, if such agreements exist. Table E specifically
notes:

1) the nature of the project;
2) the budgeted project cost and the amount of TIF assistance allocated to the project;

3) the estimated timetable and a statement of any change in the estimate during the prior
calendar year;

4) total City tax increment project expenditures during the prior calendar year and total City
tax increment project expenditures to date;

5) a description of all TIF financing, including type, date, terms, amount, project recipient,
and purpose of project financing.
Sweeney

pecearagenge

\
\
2
i

43™ and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(f) Description of all TIF Debt Instruments

Table F describes all TIF debt instruments related to the Project Area in 1998. It should be noted
that debt instruments issued without a security pledge of incremental taxes or direct payments from
incremental taxes for principal and interest are not included in Table F, as such instruments do not
qualify as TIF debt instruments as defined by the Executive Order. Table F includes:

1) the principal dollar amount of TIF debt instruments;

2) the date, dollar amount, interest rate, and security of each sale of TIF debt instruments
and type of instrument sold;

3) the underwriters and trustees of each sale;
4) the amount of interest paid from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998);

5) the amount of principal paid from tax increment during the prior calendar year (1998).

(g) Description of City Contracts

Table G provides a description of City contracts related to the Project Area, executed or in effect
during 1998 and paid with incremental tax revenues. In addition, the date, names of all contracting
parties, purpose, amount of compensation, and percentage of compensation paid is included in the
table. Table G does not apply to any contract or contract expenditure reported under (e)(5) of
Section 4 of the Executive Order.

City contracts related to the Project Area are defined as those contracts paid from TIF funds, not
related to a specific TIF project, and not elsewhere reported. Items include, but are not limited to,
payments for work done to acquire, dispose of, or lease property within a Project Area, or payments
to appraisers, surveyors, consultants, marketing agents, and other professionals. These services may
affect more than one project in a Project Area and are not otherwise reported. Table G does not
report such noncontractual cost items as Recorder of Deeds filing fees, postage, telephone service,
etc. City contracts include term agreements which are city-wide, multi-year contracts that provide
goods or services for various City departments.
ee.

43"! and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(h) Summary of Private and Public Investment Activity

Table H describes each TIF project in the Project Area that has been executed through an
intergovernmental or redevelopment agreement in 1998, or that has been approved by the
Community Development Commission in 1998.

To the extent this information is available to the Commissioner of Planning and Development on a
completed project basis, the table provides a summary of private investment activity, job creation,
and job retention within the Project Area and a summary for each TIF project within the Project
Area.

Table H contains the final ratio of private/public investment for each TIF project. The private
investment activity reported includes data from the intergovernmental or redevelopment
agreement(s) and any additional data available to the Commissioner of Planning and Development.
Other private investment activity is estimated based on the best information available to the
Commissioner of Planning and Development.

(1) Description of Property Transactions

Information regarding property transactions is provided in Table I to the extent the City took or
divested title to real property or was a lessor or lessee of real property within the Project Area.
Specifically, the Executive Order requires descriptions of the following property transactions
occurring within the Project Area during 1998:

1) every property acquisition by the City through expenditure of TIF funds, including the
location, type and size of property, name of the transferor, date of transaction, the
compensation paid, and a statement whether the property was acquired by purchase or by
eminent domain;

2) every property transfer by the City as part of the redevelopment plan for the Project
Area, including the location, type and size of property, name of the transferee, date of
transaction, and the compensation paid;

3) every lease of real property to the City if the rental payments are to be made from TIF
funds. Information shall include the location, type and size of property, name of lessor,
date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the rental amount;
Be

|
7)

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

4) every lease of real property by the City to any other person as part of the redevelopment
plan for the Project Area. Information shall include the location, type and size of
property, name of lessor, date of transaction, duration of lease, purpose of rental, and the
rental amount.

(j) Financial Summary Prepared by the City Comptroller
Section Gj) provides a 1998 financial summary for the Project Area audited by an independent
certified public accounting firm. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These statements include:

1) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at the beginning of the prior calendar year;

2) cash receipts by source and transfers deposited into the fund during the prior calendar
year;

3) transfer credits into the fund for the Project Area during the prior calendar year;

4) expenditures and transfers from the fund, by statutory category, for the Project Area
during the prior calendar year;

5) the balance in the fund for the Project Area at the conclusion of the prior calendar year.

(k) Description of Tax Receipts and Assessment Increments

Table K provides the required statement of tax receipts and assessment increments for the Project
Area as outlined in the Executive Order. The amount of incremental property tax equals the
incremental EAV from the prior year multiplied by the applicable property tax rates. Actual receipts
may vary due to delinquencies, sale of prior years’ taxes, and payment of delinquencies. See the
financial report for actual receipts. Table K provides the following information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales tax increment and state sales tax
increment deposited in the fund during the prior calendar year;
}

a

sas

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

2) fora utility tax Project Area, the municipal utility tax increment and the net state utility
tax increment amount deposited in the special allocation fund during the prior calendar
year;

3) for a property tax Project Area, (A) the total initial equalized assessed value of property
within the Project Area as of the date of designation of the area, and (B) the total
equalized assessed value of property within the Project Area as of the most recent

property tax year;

4) the dollar amount of property taxes on property within the Project Area attributable to
the difference between items (3)(A) and (3)(B) above.

All terms used in Table K relating to increment amounts and equalized assessed value (EAV) are
construed as in Section 9 of the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act or the
Hlinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law. Unless otherwise noted, the EAV and property tax
information were obtained from the Cook County Clerk’s Office. All sales tax information was
obtained from the City of Chicago.

(1) Certain Contracts of TIF Consultants

Table L provides information about contracts, if any, between the TIF consultant who was paid by
the City for assisting to establish the Project Area and paid by any entity that has received or is
currently receiving payments financed by tax increment revenues from the Project Area. The
contents of Table L are based on responses to a mail survey. This survey was sent to every
consultant who has prepared at least one redevelopment plan for the establishment of a
redevelopment project area within the City in 1998. The Executive Order specifically applies to
contracts that the City’s tax increment advisors or consultants, if any, have entered into with any
entity that has received or is receiving payments financed by tax revenues produced by the same
Project Area.

(m) Compliance Statement Prepared by an Independent Public Accountant

As part of the audit procedures performed by independent accountants, certain compliance tests were
performed related to the Project Area. Included in the Annual Report is an audit opinion indicating
compliance or non-compliance with the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act or the
Illinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate. Section (m) provides this statement.
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(a) GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The Project Area is generally bounded on the north by a boundary line which is approximately
one block north of West 43™ Street, on the east by a boundary line between South Damen and
South Wolcott avenues, on the south by a boundary line which runs between 45" Street and 43
Street, and on the west by B & O Railroad. The map below illustrates the location and general
boundaries of the Project Area. For precise boundaries, please consult the legal description in the
Redevelopment Plan (Attachment).

nee

a

tly samme

od
ew tone

;

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(b) DATE OF DESIGNATION AND TERMINATION

The Project Area was designated by the Chicago City Council on August 3, 1994. The Project
Area may be terminated no later than August 3, 2017.

(c) COPY OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

The Redevelopment Plan for the Project Area, as amended (if applicable), is contained in this
Report (Attachment).

(d) DESCRIPTION OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND REDEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS

During 1998, no new agreements were executed in the Project Area.
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(e) DESCRIPTION OF TIF PROJECT(S)

During 1998, there were no tax increment project expenditures within the Project Area.

BESS ee

nae
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

1998 Annual Report
(f) DESCRIPTION OF TIF DEBT INSTRUMENTS
| During 1998, there were no TIF debt instruments outstanding for the Project Area.

10
i
}
q
4
i

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(g) DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS

TABLE G
DESCRIPTION OF CITY CONTRACTS RELATED TO THE PROJECT AREA

CONTRACTING
PARTIES AMOUNT OF PERCENT OF
WITH THE DATE OF COMPENSATION COMPENSATION
CITY OF CHICAGO EXECUTION PURPOSE PAID IN 1998 PAID TO DATE

Bansley & Kiener Studies/Plan/Admin. $1,250

Ernst & Young Studies/Plan/Admin. $4,616

City TIF Program Administration Studies/Plan/Admin. $4,671

11
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(h) SUMMARY OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC INVESTMENT ACTIVITY

During 1998, there was no information available regarding public or private investment activity
in the Project Area.

12
}
4
2
i

7

a

seus

,

The year 2000 information on pages 7 and 8 is not a required part of
financial statements, but is supplementary information required by
Governmental Accounting Standards Board, and we did not audit and do no
express an opinion on such information. Further, we were unable to apply to
the information certain procedures prescribed by professional standards
because of the unprecedented nature of the year 2000 issue and its effects,
and the fact that authoritative measurement criteria regarding the status of
remediation efforts have not been established. In addition, we do not
provide assurance that the City of Chicago is or will become year 2000
compliant, that the City of Chicago’s year 2000 remediation efforts will be
successful in whole or in part, or that parties with which the City of
Chicago does business are or will become year 2000 compliant.

he
h

ct ¢t

co oD

fe)

Our audits were conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule of cash activities on
page 9 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory code on page 10, which
are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago’s management, are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of
the financial statements of 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the City
of Chicago, Illinois. Such additional information has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the financial statements and, in
our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects when considered in
relation to the financial statements taken as a whole.

Certified Public Accountants

May 4, 1999
i
i
{

eo

City OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

BALANCE SHEETS
DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997

AS SETS 1998 1997
Cash and investments $291,354 $159,043
Property taxes receivable 138,000 105,000
Accrued interest receivable 7,673 3,389
Total assets $437,027 $267,432

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Due to other City funds S$ 4,671 $ 3,227
Deferred revenue 136,958 105,000
Total liabilities 141,629 108,227
Fund balance 295,398 159,205
Total liabilities and fund balance $437,027 $267,432

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
CIty OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

i STATEMENTS OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES
AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997

. 1998 1997
i Revenues
| Property tax $139,057 $ 98,106
Interest 7,673 3,495
Total revenues 146,730 101,511
Expenditures
, Capital projects 10,537 3,227
|
Revenues over expenditures 136,193 98,284
Fund balance, beginning of year 159,205 60,921
Fund balance, end of year $295,398 $159,205

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
,
;
i
}

ey .

. tag
\otarnnnnal et

+
a
i

City OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Project

The 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Area

(Project) was established in August 1994. The area has been
established to finance improvements, leverage private investment
and create and retain jobs. Reimbursements, if any, are made to

the developer for project costs, as public improvements are
completed and pass City inspection.

Basis of Accounting

The Project is accounted for within the special revenue funds
of the City.

The financial statements are prepared on the modified accrual
basis of accounting and current financial resources measurement
focus with only current assets and liabilities included on the
balance sheet. Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual, i.e., both
measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current
period. Available means collectible within the current period or
soon enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
period. Expenditures are recorded when the liability is incurred.

Fixed assets are not capitalized in the general operating
funds but, instead, are charged as current expenditures when
purchased. The General Fixed Asset Account Group of the City
includes the capital assets, if any, of the Project.

Management’s Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act Compliance

The Project’s expenditures include reimbursements for various
eligible costs as described in subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3
of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act and the
Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the Project.
Eligible costs include but are not limited to survey, property
assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure, financing and
relocation costs.
4
oy
1

City OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

\ NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Continued)

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Cash and Investments

Cash belonging to the City is generally deposited with the
\ City Treasurer as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago. The
City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City expenditures
which represent a claim for payment when presented to the City
Treasurer. Payment for all City warrants clearing is made by
checks drawn on the City’s various operating bank accounts.

|
}
}
i]

The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share responsibility
for investing in authorized investments. Interest earned on pooled
investments is allocated to participating funds based upon their
average combined cash and investment balances.

On January 1, 1998, the City adopted GASB Statement No. 31,
"Accounting and Financial Reporting for Certain Investments and for
“3 External Investment Pools." Accordingly, the City values its
J investments at fair value, or amortized cost.

Property Taxes

Property taxes are susceptible to accrual and recognized as a

receivable in the year levied. Revenue recognition is deferred
: unless the taxes are received within 60 days subsequent to
| year-end.
(Ta LIGHYNI)
NOIIWNYOAUNI AUVLINGWATddAS AyeINnors

ay

i

4

YHZAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE (UNAUDITED)

The City’s operations, like those of many other business entities, may be
impacted by the inability of certain computer programs and electronic systems
with embedded microprocessor chips to recognize calendar dates beyond the
year 1999. Unless such programs and microprocessors are modified or replaced
prior to the year 2000, they may not function properly after 1999.

The City formed an executive committee in May 1998, to oversee possible
City-wide year 2000 impacts. The Department of Business and Information
Services has been charged with managing the City’s year 2000 project. The
year 2000 issue is covered within the scope of the City’s year 2000 project.
The year 2000 project is divided into stages as follows:

Awareness Stage - Establishing a budget and project plan for dealing
with the year 2000 issue.

Assessment Stage - Identifying the mission critical systems, equipment
and individual components for which year 2000 compliance is needed.

Remediation Stage - Making changes to systems and equipment.

Validation/testing Stage - Validating and testing the changes that were
made during the remediation stage.

The City committed approximately $28.2 million and $32.0 million in 1998 and
1999, respectively, for the repair and replacement of year 2000 compromised
systems. As of December 31, 1998, the City entered into contracts for
approximately $17.7 million for the test plan development, audit stages and
upgrade of certain software programs.

Mission Critical Applications

The City has identified one computer application, the Chicago Accounting and
Purchasing System, as critical to conducting the operations for year 2000
compliance. As of December 31, 1998, the City completed the awareness and
assessment stages, and the remediation stage was in process for the above
mission critical component. This mission critical component is still subject
to the validation/testing stage. The City-wide completion of all stages is
scheduled for September 1999.

Embedded Systems

The awareness stage, including an inventory of embedded systems has been
completed. Baseline assessment of mission critical functions involving
embedded systems was substantially completed by the end of the first quarter
of 1999. The City has retained outside consultants to manage and implement
completion of this aspect of the year 2000 project by the end of September
1999.
oy
|

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE (UNAUDITED)

(Continued)

Other Considerations

The City also initiated an assessment of mission critical vendors, which is
being performed by a consultant with oversight from the executive committee
to plan for continuity in the City’s supply chain. Contingency planning for
mission critical systems and other elements of the year 2000 project is
scheduled to be completed by the end of September 1999.

The above description of the stages of work to address the year 2000 issues
is not a guarantee those systems will be year 2000 compliant. Although the
City is currently on schedule to meet its objectives for year 2000
compliance, there is no assurance that compliance will be achieved in a
timely manner. Further, if the City successfully addresses its year 2000
issues, there is no assurance that any other entity or governmental agency
(including governmental organizations or entities that provide essential
infrastructure) with which the City electronically interacts will be year
2000 compliant. At this time, the City can not determine the potential
impact of such noncompliance on the business and financial condition or the
results of its operations.
NOLILWWYOUNT ASVLINAWATIddns

meres

a
|
4
ve)
t

SCHEDULE OF CASH ACTIVITIES
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997

| 1998 1997
} Cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received $138,015 $ 98,106
- Payments for capital projects (9,093) -
| Interest received 3,389 16
. Increase in cash and investments 132,311 98,122
i
| Cash and investments, beginning of year 159,043 60,921
Cash and investments, end of year $291,354 $159,043

Reconciliation of revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Revenues over expenditures $136,193 $ 98,284
Adjustments to reconcile revenues over
expenditures to net cash provided
by operating activities

ea

Changes in assets - (increase)
Property tax receivable (33,000) (105,000)
ry Accrued interest receivable (4,284) (3,389)
| Changes in liabilities - increase
Due to other City funds 1,444 3,227
Deferred revenue 31,958 105,000

i) $132,311 $98,122

Rie
Be,
an
d

Paneer

SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES BY STATUTORY CODE

Code Description

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
specifications, implementation and administration
of the redevelopment plan including but not
limited to staff and professional service costs
for architectural, engineering, legai, and marketing

1998

$10,537

i997

$34227
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

TABLE K
DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

TOTAL
MUNICIPAL STATE MUNICIPAL NET STATE TOTAL INCREMENTAL
SALES TAX SALES TAX UTILITY TAX UTILITY TAX INITIAL 1997 PROPERTY

YEAR INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT EAV EAV TAXES 1997

1998 N.A. (1) N.A. (1) N.A. (1) N.A. (1) $5,395,485 $6,840,621 $137,873

(1) N.A. - not applicable.

15
vad
4

43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1998 Annual Report

() CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS

During 1998, no TIF consultant was paid by the City for assisting to establish the Project Area
and paid by any entity that has received or is currently receiving payments financed by tax increment
revenues from the Project Area.

16
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
| 1998 Annual Report

j
i
}
|
i

(m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANT

17
Bansley and Kiener, L.L.P.

Certified Public Accountants ACBERT y MAN SPA

GERARD j PATER CPA

{ YINCENT M GUZALDO CPA
Established 1922 TIMOTHY J QUINN CPA

125 SQUTH WACKER DRIVE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60606-4496 312/263-2700 FAX 312/263-6935

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
a City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the balance sheet of 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the City of
Chicago, Illinois as of December 31, 1998, and the related statement of
= revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for the year then
J ended, and have issued our report thereon dated May 4, 1999.

- In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that caused us
| to believe that the Project failed to comply with the regulatory
provisions in Subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Illinois Tax
Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (0) of Section
11-74.6-10 of the Illinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law as they relate to
the eligibility for costs incurred incidental to the implementation of the
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois.

This report is intended for the information of the City of Chicago's
management. However, this report ig a matter of public record, and its

distribution is not limited.
Perel and Kann, L.LP

Certified Public Accountants

wan ee RSE

May 4, 1999

MEMBERS
AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CPA'S
ILLINOIS CPA SOCIETY

INTERNATIONALLY - MOORE STEPHENS
MOORE STEPHENS NORTH AMERICA, INC

BANSLEY AND KIENER, LLP
43" and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
7] 1998 Annual Report

ATTACHMENT
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

cee
: | 43rd AND DAMEN
| TAX INCREMENT REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

PLAN AND PROJECT

Prepared for:
The City of Chicago

By:
Camiros, Ltd.

April, 1994

| This plan is subject to review and may be revised after comment and public hearing |

TABLE OF CONTENTS

TL. INTRODUCTION cssssssssssccssssscsssssssssecs usssssstssssssumvnsnesensevseseecesesssanssessesesssnenssss ssa 1
2. REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION...scssssscsssccssssssssesscrsceeeseeeee 3
3. ELIGIBILITY OF THE PROJECT AREA FOR DESIGNATION AS A

CONSERVATION AREA ..ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssunssessssssessnenarusuvansceceeseeescessesenceseees 8
4. COMMUNITY PLANNING OBJECTIVES/REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

GOALS AND OBJECTIVES wescssssssssssssssssssesssssssssssnsssecssosstssnsnsnssvesonssescececcenecceseeeees 9
5. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN oeccsccsssssssssssssssssssscces rsronenscccsescsssseeccnececnceseseuseceeeneeeerecees 1
6. REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT DESCRIPTION wecsssssssssscsssssssssssssssssssovsnsrsscecneceeeees 12
7. GENERAL LAND USE PLAN AND MAP.uuu..ccccssssssscsceccecsessense ecsesesonassnsesestsneesens 13
8. DESIGN CONTROLS AND CRITERIA cccsssssssssssssssesssessessses ssesusversnsnssansereceseseees 15
9. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT FINANCING ueseccsccsccssssssccssseesseeees 16
10. PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING THE PLAN wecsssssscssssscsssssssscssssssesessssssnsnssssssssesee 21
11. CITY OF CHICAGO COMMITMENT TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT

PRACTICES AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION vocsssssssccscosscsssossscsssnsuscrsssorssseseseerenenset 22
APPENDIX A.ccccssscccsessssssccssssssssseeessscscsssnsssecceccsecesssenssenseneeeeecensnssresarsnnsuauenasesararsssessen Al
LIST OF FIGURES AND TABLES
FIGURE 1 oscsssssccsccsscsssssovssssssossosceneessnsnsvenssuesensvessuee nusuntunevesessecssssseaceneseeseveenssseseesssesesssset 5
FIGURE 2oseseccssccsssscscsssecssssssee nusssssussssusanuussssesssssrsn sesssnessscesssesacessssssseseeeeusunansessssseeseanseets 6
FIGURE 3 ossesesssccssccssccosccsesesces suvetsnsusensssnesessssnssnsssnseceseesceesecsencecsecessstees usuusutsssssseseseseseas 7
FIGURE 4 ..ccssssccsscosccssssssssssssssscossceaceesesessnsessssunsssusss susvasunmssesessensesecessesecsseceeesensesseseeeeseese 14
TABLE 1. ELIGIBLE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS eessessssssssssscccssscssseceses sess 17
TABLE 2. INITIAL EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE OF REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT oecsssscsescsscscccsecsesccssescsssosecesssssvarsssssssstovansn stsonessssusussssssusscecsccssesssseseseescesecseeeseeses 19
|

43RD AND DAMEN
TAX INCREMENT REDEVELOPMENT
PLAN AND PROJECT

1.
INTRODUCTION

This document presents the recommended Tax Increment Redevelopment Plan and Project for the
43rd and Damen industrial area located in the Stockyards Industrial Corridor on Chicago's south
side. The plan and project respond to problem conditions including the presence of numerous
blighting factors, and a lack of private investment within the study area, and reflect the commitment
by the City of Chicago to improve and revitalize the Redevelopment Project Area. Private
development and investment in the area cannot he reasonably expected to occur without the
leadership and assistance of the City including the adoption of this Redevelopment Plan and Project,
and the use of tax increment financing.

Tax Increment Financing

In adopting the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, the Illinois State Legislature found
t

“,,.there exist in many municipalities within this State blighted, conservation and industrial park
conservation areas; that the conservation areas are rapidly deteriorating and declining and may
soon become blighted areas if their decline is not checked...It is hereby found and declared that
in order to promote and protect the health, safety, morals, and welfare of the public, thar blighted
conditions need to be eradicated and conservation measures instituted, and that redevelopment
of such areas be undertaken...The eradication of blighted areas and treatrnent and improvement
of conservation areas and industrial park conservation areas is hereby declared to be essential to
the public interest.”

In order to use the tax increment financing technique, a municipality must first establish that the
proposed redevelopment project area meets the statutory criteria for designation as a “blighted area”,
a “conservation area” or an “industrial conservation area”. A redevelopment plan must then be
prepared which describes the development or redevelopment program intended to be undertaken to
reduce or eliminate those conditions which qualified the redevelopment project area as a “blighted
area”, “conservation area”, or combination thereof, or “industrial conservation area”, and thereby
enhance the tax bases of the taxing districts which extend into the redevelopment project area.
Redevelopment projects are defined as any public or private development projects undertaken in
furtherance of the objectives of the redevelopment plan.

The legislation requires that each redevelopment plan set forth in writing the program which will be
undertaken to accomplish the municipality’s redevelopment objectives. The Act also states that

“No redevelopment plan shall be adopted unless.... (1) The municipality finds that the
redevelopment project area on the whole has not been subject to growth and development
through investment by private enterprise and would not be reasonably be anticipated to be
developed without the adoption of the redevelopment plan, (2) The municipality finds that the
redevelopment plan and project conform to the comprehensive plan for the development of the
municipality as a whole, or for municipalities with a population of 100,000 or more, regardless of
when the redevelopment plan and project was adopted, the redevelopment plan and project
either: (i) conforms to the strategic economic development or redevelopment plan issued by the
designated planning authority of the municipality, or (ii) includes land uses that have been
:
1
)
i
i

approved by the planning commission of the municipality, (3) The redevelopment plan
establishes the estimated dates of, completion of the redevelopment project and retirement of
obligations issued to finance redevelopment project costs. Those dates shall not be more than 23.
years from the adoption of the ordinance approving the redevelopment project area, if the
ordinance was adopted on or after January 15, 1981, and not more than 35 years if the ordinance
was adopted before January 15, 1981 or if the municipality is subject to the Local Government
Financial Planning and Supervision Act...., {4} The municipality finds, in the case of an industrial
park conservation area, also that the municipality is a labor surplus municipality and that the
implementation of the redevelopment plan will reduce unemployment, create new jobs and by
the provision of new facilities enhance the tax base of the taxing districts that extend into the
redevelopment project area. (5) If any incremental revenues are being utilized under Section
8(a}{1) or 8(a}{2) of this Act in redevelopment project areas approved by ordinance after January I,
1986, the municipality finds (a) that the redevelopment project area would not reasonably be
developed without the use of such incremental revenues, and (b) that such incremental revenues
will be exclusively utilized for the development of the redevelopment project area.”

Pursuant to the provisions contained in the Act, the City of Chicago has authorized an evaluation of
whether a portion of the 43rd and Damen industrial area qualifies for designation as a “blighted area”
and, if the area so qualifies, the preparation of a redevelopment plan for the redevelopment project
area in accordance with the requirements of the Act.

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area is located within the Stockyards Industrial
Corridor on Chicago’s south side. The Redevelopment Project Area is generally bounded by the east
line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14, then east along the south right-of-way line of
43rd Street to a point approximately 130 feet west of the west right-of-way line of Wolcott Avenue,
then generally southwest along the Chicago River and Industrial Railroad Company right-of-way to
the east right-of-way line of Damen Avenue, then west to the west right-of-way line of Damen
Avenue, then north approximately 110 feet, then southwest along the southeastern property line of
tax parcel 20-06-301-014, then generally north along the western property line of said parcel,
continuing north along the western property line of tax parcel 20-06-301-010 to a point
approximately 250 feet south of the south right-of-way line of 43rd Street then west approximately
100 feet, then north approximately 250 feet to the south right-of-way line of 43rd Street, then west
approximately 1,060 feet, then north to the north right-of-way line of 43rd Street, then east to the
west line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14, then narth a distance of approximately
625 feet, then east a distance of approximately 660 feet, then north a distance of approximately 28
feet, then east a distance of approximately 655 feet to the east line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of
Section 6-38-14 then south to the point of beginning. The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project
Area is approximately 35.96 acres in size and is bordered on the east by the Stockyards Tax
Increment Financing District which was established in 1989.

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area has not been subject to growth and development
by private enterprise. An analysis of conditions within the redevelopment project area indicates that
it is appropriate for designation as a redevelopment project in accordance with the State of Llinois
tax increment financing legislation.

The analysis disclosed that the area was originally developed without the benefit or guidance of
overall community planning, and that the area does not meet basic standards and guidelines for
contemporary development. As a result of these and other factors, the area is characterized by
conditions that warrant the designation of the entire area as a “blighted area” under the definitions
set forth in the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act of the State of Illinois (hereinafter
referred to as the “Act”’).

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan and Project have been formulated in accordance with the
provisions of the Act. This document is a guide to all proposed public and private actions in the
Redevelopment Project Area.
2.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA DESCRIPTION

The 43rd and Daren Redevelopment Project Area is generally bounded by the east line of the east
1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14, then east along the south right-of-way line of 43rd Street to a
point approximately 130 feet west of the west right-of-way line of Wolcott Avenue, then generally
southwest along the Chicago River and Industrial Railroad Company right-of-way to the east right-
of-way line of Damen Avenue, then west to the west right-of-way line of Damen Avenue, then
snorth approximately 110 feet, then southwest along the southeastern property line of tax parcel 20-
06-301-014, then generally north along the western property line of said parcel, continuing north
along the western pro line of tax parcel 20-06-301-010 to a-point approximately 250 feet south
of the south right-of-way line of 43rd Street then west approximately 100 feet, then north
approximately 250 feet to the south right-of-way line of 43rd Street, then west approximately 1,060
feet, then north to the north right-of-way line of 43rd Street, then east to the west line of the east 1/2
of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14, then north a distance of approximately 625 feet, then east a
distance of approximately 660 feet, then north a distance of approximately 28 feet, chen east a
distance of approximately 655 feet to the east line of the east 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6-38-14
then south to the point of beginning. The boundaries of the Redevelopment Project Area are shown
in Figure 1. The Redevelopment Project Area is approximately 35.96 acres in size.

A legal description of the Redevelopment Project Area is included as Appendix A of this document.
The proposed redevelopment project area includes only contiguous parcels, qualifies for designation
as a “blighted area” and is not less that 1-1/2 acres in aggregate as required by the Act. The proposed
Redevelopment Project Area includes only that area which is anticipated to be substantially
benefited by the proposed redevelopment project improvements.

The 43rd and Darnen Redevelopment Project Area is located in the Stockyards Industrial Corridor.
The Redevelopment Project Area presently consists of 24 parcels of vacant and improved industrial
property under multiple ownerships. Five tax parcels in the study area are railroad property. A review
of City zoning and base maps indicates that this area once contained many rail spurs which no
onger exist.

The predominant land use in the Redevelopment Project Area is warehouse and distribution. Other
industrial uses surround the redevelopment project area. The present land use distribution is shown
in Figure 2.

The Redevelopment Project Area is presently zoned as a M2-3 General Manufacturing District east
of Damen and as a M3-5 Heavy Manufacturing District west of Damen(Figure 3).

The Dry Storage Corporation is the largest property owner in the Redevelopment Project Area. Dry
Storage holdings include approximately 620,000 square feet of warehouse space divided among six
buildings on slightly less than 18 acres of land.

Truck access to the Redevelopment Project Area is provided via 43rd Street. Damen Avenue is
elevated through the Redevelopment Project area and does not provide direct truck access. Pedestrian
access is provided by two stairways from Damen Avenue to 43rd Street below. 43rd Street is paved,
however, other public and private rights-of-way serving the study area exist as unimproved dirt and
gravel roadways. :
eae

a
Seeavernert ec}

The area was developed in two major waves. The earliest buildings were built in the early 1900's and
include two large multi-story warehouses and two smaller industrial buildings. These buildings are
located in the southeast quadrant of the study area and were designed to take advantage of the
numerous rail spurs that served the area. The remaining buildings in the study area were built
between 1962 and 1974. It was during this period that the area assumed its current identity as a
strong warehouse and distribution district.
a a “omen eel BeeES aan

Pes , pee =a b A pte 0 ee A
kK .

i
,
fa oot
’
fy

Figure 1

43rd & Damen
Redevelopment Project Area

.
a ame! 4, res 43RD
hy t . | .
\ \ fr
\ ‘ ™ if
ant oy
\ ye t f }
{ a ! | !
, 3 le | '
1 ‘ | wf a Staten iota
i} 1 [ le
' ‘ t
| | . 4 (amt) * { t
VOR 1 l. f!
1 1, 2 | }
; Si \ i ae yar
«
‘ , * ' f
. \
et \ Gol) ! an
wi \ ; | le ' #
‘ ‘ oor i i
“4 \ I 989 0 | |
| i \ ; 1 ates bar
' i
| ! i ! i sone
rw t
! t
H Ih, | tc word
HY H
t ‘ ‘
1 \ / 4
al wt \ if ”
haat 23 x \ a .
i Ah, ,
‘ ‘ n l
i 4 eee te”
Pe Meee
Law

seers te Aspen tsa

SAA

SSS

Se Sarthe he hehe

a?

eS

.

See

Vy)
We joys : —Y

LODLLLLLLLE DEI SO
SLUG OL. GM Cente

R2:0,2,2.) Wats" 04: PY 4 a Tae
: yALRANY Ag DY)

SILIN OEE LS Y ATID NEOLMLD
EUEILANCT 286 A Bo AP LE LY |
WL EZBN OL IMAGER VE SIMI COTE
4 1p VIOSIM OL IM

ereracrye Og UCIT
ry) y Siena cre Of OOM TOE g
PAELLA LAS SV PLATA ALIN)
TEAS META Olae
ee care a7)

NS

4h

be i A
O r ‘ ‘ A
GSES VITIM
| YY yee
wl,

eM LY

NS
NAYS
x
8
R
at
WAS
SS
8
sS
Ry
x
SAA AN A

oz 294 aa Par aA)

4 PT NELLA ANC LLY)
terrae LELANTOTHAG
MLO LOAP TOR IPN IMA
AMNLALINS AIL OLIN

pera,
LPL LAIOSS oF.
AIS
LL LAGS 54
OST MT Re,

8
5
Sa
:
RNSASSSNNES
WARAAARARS

Cou tj

PIL TOS HE TMA OLED
eat 2A PA CIA IORE |
Hopi Lie Op CELA IIT IA
SANE ere ee
ASA ESSA

Z LLL EME LILULLLL LL POLIL ITIL OPE,
+ eberrerrn so as t

Prepared by:

HORT Camiros, Ltd.
411 South Wells Street

_ Chicago, Illinois 60607

f
re nm - Lb
=

on --- as

wren nn En en t
& *

& 8 ore + BRA. pheno? ns .
® awe momen sre crsr rss oe ee one a
-
a i one . [
- }

eet ee
-- a

‘
i
'

tne +d

{
i

Lea Pt Pt Pe

overt?

esp puey Buyysixg

°
ior ‘ x
i .
' te e
{ ve
k ey oP @
i . g ope
ow ' z hh aad
ick ‘ age
‘ ego
oee

hhh

eLe

fee ee
-
’
‘
-
“
v
«
e.e
BEE

TS mg ae ere ee oe a ee ee ne oe ee ee ae ee ee ELE, we ee oe aoe ee ee mee mrcee om

d

4
Ul
e,0,0,t

*

ame
of

i on

deh:

e e O
oe SOSOESERHD SELES ED OHEEDESOCOE
are vere rev
See eS ears ene eteee
Coane

v. SeTeearalereoe sat b

eo eeesee

are. khnn.,
oy,
: *.

on ene
rer

operat

Hiwou

7

A

hod '
Q= t
= ‘
2on 22 '
oo me i
£E0 ay = Lo.
——aD as P
Bes DO N x
555 : ;
ae s ° if
2230 = 3 , i ‘
wEOs = i
k sdond
D ene eo <
Ose om C ' :
race ' Bo
Q : \
N2MS Re eet = eed! oh:
Figure 3
Existing Zoning

ee ee go _ ee WE ne —— Se
t - “
& pt. -at b Ae SE bene 0 et a. ----- wl. T. 758 T
A. A SS ALS ---- baw ener enne nH pes UE ne meen as'----b---
. Td OTL ia {
eee pte _ v6 1 : MO teer
: oo ~ ain [in ahatd H 4 me tay Aes.
90 2 ye Cement 1 4 ere fod .
“we Me star wercoce t--7 eee ' a | : - ;
1 af Sanenn concen Pd * faa ETA k a women ob-
é 4 § v4 ‘ Don ‘é
/ “” =" 3 a ry ' -
/ Wa 7 oe M35 +0, -oon soe a err | -08e ’ a me bet | nm -ant T
¢ / ot " . }. : 2:00 ase. D068 aes. { ‘ PLO Ate.
fi HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT : wwe |
1; - i
a ; rs -0es 1 H
4 H na é
‘ ot ! (a re eee Nn seer 43AD TREE]
1 hn . Pie a
, 4 io: i tid I -
‘ Soe | Li ‘ :
H a 1m toe ; iF ao. Gee
, ee sot 4
t ‘ ° H o | tt. PY soma
, 0 j Mah ag ~~ Les ar Re
\ \ [ Ve 3;
sow ba _...a.”
| | : ws i GENERAL ="
‘ \
rootN | i {3| MANUFACTURING Jf. .
an in
rele : DISTRICT
‘
ic \
«! | \ Gol) '
ba} \ hdd H . fh
\ ‘ i gly . :
t \ 20.098 rb i ran atod + we |
{ . | \ 1 AS sw lg 0% Ms.
| , # i , i F
1 “ i} te ‘ &
cr t 4 Hi ‘
i k | ‘ ~ane
oR of H
§ ‘ ;
i 4 ;
1 i \
Meh ON,
i Ye
‘ “4 we
‘ 1 ~.
i ‘
i ‘
$0 — sr
gare 4

echerrernr saw) tat

Prepared by:
Camiros, Ltd.

411 South Wells Street
Chicago, Illinois 60607

rer]
5S |
oe 4
La

|

3.
ELIGIBILITY OF THE PROJECT AREA FOR DESIGNATION AS A BLIGHTED
AREA

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area on the whole has not been subject to growth and
development through investment by private enterprise. Based on the conditions present, the area is
not likely to be developed without the adoption of the redevelopment plan.

In February, 1994 a study was undertaken to establish whether the proposed redevelopment project
area is eligible for designation as a blighted area in accordance with the requirements of the “Real
Property Tax Increment Allocation Development Act.” This. analysis concluded that the area
qualifies as a blighted area.

Of the 14 factors cited in the Act, 8 factors are present within the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment
Project Area. Five are required in order for the area to be designated as blighted. The following
blighting factors were found to be present within the Redevelopment Project Area:

Age .

Deleteérious land use or layout
Depreciation of physical maintenance
Deterioration

Excessive land coverage

Inadequate Utilities

Lack of community planning
Obsolescence

@oeoee#e#e¢s

Several unused railroad parcels were also found to be present in the study area.

The specific basis upon which eligibility for designation as a blighted area was established, is
presented in the 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Eligibility Report.
4,
COMMUNITY PLANNING OBJECTIVES/REDEVELOPMENT PLAN GOALS
AND OBJECTIVES

j The proposed 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan and Project are consistent with the City of
Chicago’s industrial development policies articulated in the City’s

: j icazo’ ide and companion documents prepared for
Chicago’s North and South Sides. As stated in these industrial policy documents:

“ The creation and preservation of jobs for Chicago residents is a major economic development
goal of the city...In support of its job creation goal, the City’s industrial land use policy seeks to
provide opportunities for synergy between related industrial activities, to minimize the conflicts
between industrial and other land uses, and to maximize the benefits of public investment in
capital programming and related industrial investment.”

The adopted industrial land use policy is supported by a nine point implementation strategy:

1. Adopt an industrial land use plan which designates viable and well defined industrial
corridors.

of 2. Maintain the industrial integrity of the corridor by requiring that proposals for non-industrial
development and proposals for rezoning to non-industrial districts be approved as planned
developments.

3. Continue the selective use of the Planned Manufacturing District mechanism as a tool for
assuring stability of land use‘in the City’s industrial areas.

id 4. Amend the provisions of the Chicago Zoning Ordinance applicable to the manufacturing
zoning districts for a classification of uses and associated development standards which are
congruent with the needs of modern industrial development.

| 5. Rezone the non-industrial zoned properties within the corridor and, as necessary, existing

industrially zoned properties consistent with the appropriate modified M-zoning category.

| 6. Give priority consideration to the operational needs of existing industrial uses when
reviewing the rezoning of industrial property outside of industrial corridors.

: 7. Establish an interdepartmental program to identify. and regularly update the infrastructure
needs of industry throughout the City.

8. Feature the industrial park opportunities identified in the land use plan in citywide programs
to attract, expand and retain industry. Identify land in industrial corridors for industrial park
development and create programs to assist the private sector in the development of these
: sites,

9. Identify Rail Access Development Areas and foster a closer relationship between the
| railroads and the City to enhance the development and marketing of rail properties and
services,
|
J

ge

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan and Project will enhance the City’s ability to achieve its
goals. The Proposed Redevelopment Plan and Project is consistent with adopted industrial. -
development policies because it maintains the industrial integrity of the corridor and will facilitate
industrial expansion elsewhere in the City.

Redevelopment Plan Goals and Objectives

The overall goal of the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Plan is to stimulate private industrial

investment in the area in order to enhance property values and attract and retain industrial users

who will provide jobs and enhance Chicago’s industrial property tax base. The City’s goals and

objectives of encouraging development and private investment will be realized by:

e Achieving significant new industrial growth in a declining area.

e Undertaking necessary site development to meet the needs of identified new industrial users.

¢ Implementing a plan that addresses the redevelopment costs of land acquisition, site
improvements, and other activities that may be necessary to encourage industrial growth of the
Redevelopment Project Area.

¢ Improving public facilities that may include, but are not limited to, roadway improvements.

e Entering into redevelopment agreements and by exercising other powers set forth in the Act as

the City of Chicago deems necessary in order to implement the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment
Plan and Project.

10
5.
} REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

The City proposes to achieve its redevelopment goals and objectives for the Redevelopment Project
Area through the use of public financing techniques, including tax increment financing, and by
undertaking some or all of the following actions:

1. Assembling sites for redevelopment through appropriate land assembly techniques. The City
may determine that it is necessary to participate in property acquisition or may use other
means to induce transfer of such property to a private developer. Land acquisition activities
are intended to facilitate private investment and upgrading of existing buildings within the
Redevelopment Project Area.

2. Providing public improvements and facilities which may include, but are not limited to
surface right-of-way improvements,

d 3. Entering into. redevelopment agreements for the rehabilitation or construction of private
improvements in accordance with the Redevelopment Plan.

J
|
|

6.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT DESCRIPTION

The 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project is intended to facilitate the expansion of the Farley
Foods, USA warehouse facilities within the City of Chicago. This expansion will allow Farley to
increase production at its Chicago plant, and thus employment. The project involves the acquisition
and improvement of several large warehouse facilities within the Redevelopment Project Area.

In order to carry out the public improvements needed to stimulate private investment in the
redevelopment project area and industrial expansion in other.areas of Chicago, some or all of the
following activities and actions may be undertaken. ;

Development Strategies/Redevelopment Activities

Site Assembly

To achieve the renewal of the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area, property identified in
Figure 1, may be acquired by purchase or long term lease and either sold or leased for private
redevelopment or sold, leased or dedicated for construction of public improvements. The City may
determine that to meet the objectives of this Redevelopment Plan, properties scheduled for
acquisition in the plan may be exempted from acquisition without amendment of this
Redevelopment Plan.

Provision of Public Improvements and Facilities

Adequate public improvements and-facilities may be provided to service the entire Redevelopment
Project Area. Public improvements and facilities may include, but are not limited to roadway
improvements such as viaduct pavement replacement. In the event that the City determines that
construction of certain improvements is not financially feasible, the City may reduce the scope of
the proposed improvements.

Redevelopment Agreements
Terms of conveyance for land acquired as part of this redevelopment project shall be incorporated in

appropriate disposition agreements. Such agreements may contain more specific controls than those
stated in this Redevelopment Plan.

12
7.
GENERAL LAND USE PLAN AND MAP

This Redevelopment Plan and the proposed Redevelopment Project conform to the City of Chicago’s
adopted industrial land use policy.

The General Land Use Plan, Figure 4, identifies land uses expected to result from implementation of
this plan. The major land use category included within the Redevelopment Project Area is industrial
warehouse and distribution. The land use plan is intended to provide a guide for future land use
improvements and developments within the Project Area. ;

The proposed 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project envisions the consolidation and resubdivision
of the property within the redevelopment project area as needed to facilitate industrial use of the
site.

It is anticipated that City expenditures for redevelopment project costs will be carefully staged in a

reasonable and proportional basis to coincide with expenditures for redevelopment by private
developers. ~

13
ies

wear ‘ia alee Renate Bi ~~-P---
. . * he +e?
¥ mM fT Ag.
J

fn “aT spon tonal .
. N er
. ove i *
Sees
3 ear ‘ { —
-o8e ‘ yo .etse be \ pO aid T
DOF Moe. H n Pe 70d aes,
pe ri |
LA
ii
- Md ° ry) PY ery
& DISTRIBUTION i |
OES EMER E TTT TUG hate Whit ‘ c a . :
. RN EXLEX ARATE AKA AK AKER TK ey £5585
i
\ '
\. a3 i
i} pe {
toa . ‘
i |
1 ' '
i | |
. 4
| | :
\
N |

- AR.
ane”

4%
20 O88 ob

-

|
| \
!

---- 248

Goo),

=
ra
‘
ee aad
“" ee ae ee oe ee

to oe
-"
meee

one

———
orem .
eee ene eee Be
$
‘
lameneee
‘
1
4 .
!
:
i *
t ee
wv
A
a ¢
ta
/
!
t f] .
. t
Ul
!
I
:
7g
we
ict
’ \
1 \
' ‘
. s,
.
’ \
' ae.
2
t

rs

Prepared by:
Camiros, Ltd.

411 South Wolls Streat
Chicago, Illinois 60607

Figure 4
General Land Use Plan

8.
DESIGN CONTROLS AND CRITERIA

It is the intent of this redevelopment plan that the project area be used as a conveniently located
warehouse and distribution district. The following design and development objectives should be used
to guide new development and improvements within the Redevelopment Project Area, and apply
equally to all areas included in the land use plan. These design objectives are consistent with the
recommendations contained in the City of Chicago’s

. , West Si

¢ Provide an adequate supply of appropriately located employee parking within the
Redevelopment Project Area.

e Facilitate the provision of off-street loading facilities that meet the needs of modern
industrial users.

e Ensure that new development complies with the Zoning Ordinance regulations within the
Redevelopment Project Area.

¢ Undertake roadway and traffic improvements as needed so that the property functions as a
modern, well-integrated industrial area for industrial users who rely on modern distribution

techniques.

15
9.
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PROJECT FINANCING

Tax increment financing can only be used when desired private investment would not reasonably be
expected to occur without. public assistance. The enabling legislation allowing the use of tax
increment financing in Illinois sets forth the range of public assistance that may be provided.

|
;
]

Eligible Project Costs

Redevelopment project costs mean and include the sum total of all reasonable or necessary costs
incurred or estimated to be incurred, and any such costs incidental to this Redevelopment Plan and
Redevelopment Project. Eligible costs may include, without limitation, the following:

1. Costs of studies and surveys, development plans and specifications, implementation and
aa administration of the redevelopment including but not limited to staff and professional
ad service costs including but not limited to architectural, engineering, legal, marketing,

financial, planning or other special services; ,

“| i. 2. Property assembly costs, including but not limited to acquisition of land and other property,

| real or personal, or rights or interests therein, demolition of buildings, and the clearing and

- grading of land;

3. Costs of rehabilitation, reconstruction, repair or remodeling of existing public or private
buildings and fixtures,

4. Costs of the construction of public works or improvements;
_ 5. Costs of job training and retraining projects;

6. Financing costs, including but not limited to all necessary and incidental expenses related to
the issuance of obligations and which may include payment of interest on any obligations
issued under the Act accruing during the estimated period of construction of any
redevelopment project for which such obligations are issued and for not exceeding 36
months thereafter and including reasonable reserves related thereto;

ce

\, Be)

7. All or a portion of a taxing district’s capital costs resulting from the Redevelopment Project
necessarily incurred or to be incurred in furtherance of the Redevelopment Plan and Project,
to the extent the municipality, by written agreement, accepts and approves such costs;

8. Relocation costs to the extent that the City determines that relocation costs shall be paid or
that the City is required to make payment of relocation costs by State or Federal law;

i 9. Payment in lieu of taxes;
10. Costs of job training, advanced vocational education or career education, including but not

limited to courses in occupational, semi-technical or technical fields leading directly to
employment, incurred by one or more taxing districts as provided in the Act;

16
i
i
}
i
4

11. Interest costs incurred by a developer related to the construction, renovation or
rehabilitation as provided in the Act.

The cost of constructing new privately-owned buildings is not an eligible redevelopment project cost,
unless specifically authorized by the Act.

Estimated Project Costs

A range of activities and improvements will be required to implement this tax increment financing
project. The proposed eligible activities and their costs are briefly described below and shown in
Table |.

Acquisition of property for sale or lease for private redevelopment including appropriate relocation
costs. ;

Estimated cost: $3,000,000

Construction of public improvements and facilities which may include, but are not limited to
viaduct pavement replacement or other roadway improvements. These improvements are intended
to improve access to the Redevelopment Project Area and stimulate private investment.

Estimated cost: $40,000

Planning, legal, surveys, fees and other related development costs. This budget element provides for
studies and survey costs for planning and implementation of the project, including planning and legal
fees, financial and special service costs.

Estimated cost: $60,000
Contingencies pursuant to provisions of the Act
Estimated cost: $100,000

The estimated gross eligible project cost is $3,200,000. The total project cost including public and
private components is estimated at $11,000,000.

All project cost estimates are in 1994 dollars. Any bonds issued to finance portions of the project
may include an amount of proceeds sufficient to pay customary and reasonable charges associated
with issuance of such obligations as well as to provide for capitalized interest and reasonably
required reserves. Adjustments to estimated line items are expected and may be made without
amendment to the Redevelopment Plan as long as the total project expenditures remain unchanged.

Table 1

ELIGIBLE REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT COSTS

Land Assembly $3,000,000
Public Improvements and Facilities 40,000
Planning, Legal, Surveys and Related Development Costs 60,000
Contingencies 100,000
TOTAL $3,200,000

17
Sources of Funds

Funds necessary to pay for redevelopment project costs and municipal obligations which have been
issued to pay for such costs are to be derived principally from tax increment revenues and proceeds
from municipal obligations which have as their revenue source tax increment revenue.

The tax increment revenue which will be used to fund tax increment obligations and redevelopment
project costs shall be the incremental real property taxes. Incremental real property tax revenue is
attributable to the increase in the current equalized assessed value of each taxable lot, block, tract or
parcel of real property in the Redevelopment Project Area over and above the initial equalized
assessed value of each such property in the Redevelopment Project Area. Other sources of funds
which may be used to pay for redevelopment costs and obligations issued, the proceeds of which are
used to pay for such costs, are land disposition proceeds, state and federal grants, investment income,
and such other sources of funds and revenues as the municipality may from time to time deem
appropriate,

The City may issue general obligation bonds secured by the full faith and credit of the City for the
purpose of financing redevelopment project costs. Such bonds may be payable from ad valorem taxes
levied against all taxable property in the City of Chicago.

Development of the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Aréa would not be reasonably expected
to occur without the use of the incremental revenues provided by the Act. Redevelopment project
costs include those eligible project costs set forth in the Act and not the full range of development
costs associated with the proposed Redevelopment Project. The majority of development costs will
be privately financed. Tax increment financing or other public sources will be used only to the
extent needed to secure commitments for private redevelopment activity.

Nature and.Term of Obligations to be Issued

The City of Chicago may issue obligations secured by the tax increment special tax allocation fund
established for the project area pursuant to the Act or such other funds or security as are available to
the City by virtue of its powers pursuant to the Illinois State Constitution.

All tax increment financing obligations issued by the City of Chicago in order to implement this
Redevelopment Plan and Project shal] be retired within twenty-three (23) years from the adoption of
the ordinance approving the Redevelopment Project Area. The final maturity date of any such
obligations which are issued may not be later than twenty (20) years from their respective dates of
issue. One or more series of obligations may be sold at one or more times in order to implement this
Redevelopment Plan. We anticipate that the amounts payable in any year as principal and interest on
all obligations issued by the City pursuant to the Redevelopment Plan and Act shall not exceed the
amounts projected to be available from the tax increment revenues and from such bond sinking
funds or other sources of funds as may be provided by ordinance.

Revenues shall be used for the scheduled and/or early retirement of obligations, and for reserves,
bond sinking funds and redevelopment project costs, and, to the extent that the real property tax
increment is not used for such purposes, shall be declared surplus and shall then become available
for distribution annually to taxing districts in the Redevelopment Project Area in the manner
provided by the Act.

Most Recent Equalized Assessed Valuation

As of the 1992 tax year, the total equalized assessed valuation for the Redevelopment Project Area is
$5,450,274. The equalized assessed valuation for each of the parcels contained within the 43rd and
Damen Redevelopment Project Area is presented in Table 2.

The initial equalized assessed valuation is subject to final determination and verification by the

Cook County Assessor. After verification, the correct figure shall be certified by the County Clerk of
Cook County, Illinois.

18
|

eee

dhe

Table 2 .

INITIAL EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE OF REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA

1992 Equalized

V,
20-06- 100-038 Railroad
20-06- 100-08 1 $753,715
20-06- 100-083 1,126,923
20-06- 100-090 29,766
20-06- 100-09 1 263,628
20-06- 100-092 32,825
20-06- 100-097 918,057
20-06- 100-098 Railroad
20-06-301-004 33,272
20-06-301-005 114,846
20-06-301-007 98,391
20-06-301-009 338,011
20-06-301-010 577,869
20-06-301-014 75,869
20-06-301-015-6002 36,827
20-06-400-003 35,326
20-06-400-005 129,436
20-06-400-006 68,831
20-06-400-009 315,854
20-06-400-010 24,209
20-06-400-011. 280,114
20-06-400-017 Railroad
20-06-400-022 196,505
20-06-400-023 Railroad
Total $5,450,274

Anticipated Equalized Assessed Valuation

Once the project has been completed and the property is fully assessed, the equalized assessed
valuation of real property within the Redevelopment Project Area is estimated at $7,978,654. This
estimate has been calculated assuming that the Redevelopment Project Area will be developed in
accordance with the general land use plan described in Chapter 7 of this document.

The estimated equalized assessed valuation assumes that the assessed value of property within the
study area will increase substantially as a result of planned acquisition and improvements involving
several large warehouse buildings within the Redevelopment Project Area.

Calculation of the projected equalized assessed valuation is based on several other key assumptions,
including: 1) redevelopment of the 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Area will occur in a timely
manner; and 2} the application of a State Multiplier of 1.9953 to the projected assessed value of
property within the study area. The projected State Multiplier was calculated by averaging the State
Multipliers for Cook County for the most recent five year period (1988 through1992).

Financial Impact on Taxing Districts
Because the proposed Redevelopment Plan and Project involves acquisition and improvement of
existing buildings, and not new construction, the financial impact of the redevelopment project is

expected to be negligible. No increased demands for services from any taxing district affected by the
Redevelopment Plan and Project are anticipated.

19
4
S q

|

Although no short-term financial or service demand impacts are expected to result from adoption of
this Redevelopment Plan and Project, it is hoped that additional private investment will be attracted
to the area over the life of the Redevelopment Project. Since the specific nature of such investments
cannot be determined at this time, the financial impacts on the various taxing jurisdictions or
increased service demands resulting from such new development cannot be quantified. However,
because of current zoning, the existing land use pattern, and the City’s adopted industrial land use
policy, any new development is likely to be industrial in nature. As a result, increased service
demands are likely to be limited to utilities either provided by the City of Chicago or the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. The City will monitor and assess the
financial impact or increased service demands on affected taxing jurisdictions and develop specific
plans to address any such impacts that may occur over the life of the Redevelopment Project.

Real estate tax revenues resulting from increases in the equalized assessed value over and above the
certified initial equalized assessed value established with the adoption of this Redevelopment Plan
and Project will be used to pay eligible redevelopment costs in the area. At the end of such period,
the real estate tax revenues attributable to the increase in the equalized assessed value over the
certified initial equalized assessed value will be distributed to all taxing districts levying property
taxes against property located in the Redevelopment Project Area. Successful implementation of this
Redevelopment Plan and Project is expected to result in new development and private investment on
a scale sufficient to overcome blighted conditions and substantially improve the long-term economic
value of the area. :

Completion of the Redevelopment Project and Retirement of Obligations to Finance Redevelopment
Project Costs

This Redevelopment Project will be completed on or before a date twenty-three (23) years from the
adoption of the ordinance designating the Redevelopment Project Area. The City of Chicago expects
that the Redevelopment Project will be completed sooner than the maximum time limit set by the

Act. _
|
|

|
i

10.

PROVISIONS FOR AMENDING THE PLAN

This 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project and Plan may be amended pursuant to

] the provisions of the Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act.

21
partners

3

ue
ie
ue
a

Neebannat test

ea

eel

vera

11.
CITY OF CHICAGO COMMITMENT TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES

AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

As part of any Redevelopment Agreement entered into by the City and the private developer, both
will agree te establish and implement an affirmative action program that serves appropriate sectors
of the City of Chicago.

With respect to the public/private development's internal operations, both entities will pursue
employment practices which provide equal opportunity to all people regardless of sex, color, race or
creed. Neither party will countenance discrimination against any employee or applicant because of
sex, marital status, national origin, age, or the presence of physical handicaps. These
nondiscriminatory practices will apply to all areas of employment, including hiring, upgrading and
promotions, termination’s, compensation, benefit programs and educational opportunities.

Anyone involved with employment or contracting activities for this Redevelopment Project will be
responsible for conformance with this policy and the compliance requirements of applicable state
and federal regulations.

The City and the private developers involved in the implementation of this Redevelopment Project
will adopt a policy of equal employment opportunity and will include or require the inclusion of this
statement in all contracts and subcontracts at any level for the Project being undertaken in the
Redevelopment Project Area. Any public/private partnership established for the development project
in the Redevelopment Project Area will seek to ensure and maintain a working environment free of
harassment, intimidation, and coercion at all sites, and in all facilities at which employees are
assigned to work. It shall be specifically ensured that all on-site supervisory personnel are aware of
and carry out the obligation to maintain such a working environment, with specific attention to
minority and/or female individuals. The partnership will utilize affirmative action to ensure that
business opportunities are provided and that job applicants are employed and treated in a
nondiscriminatory manner.

Underlying this policy is the recognition that successful affirmative action programs are important
to the continued growth and vitality of the City of Chicago.
tego tence atl

4
i
i
)

Sinemensatettaih

ae

APPENDIX A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE 43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECT AREA

That part of Section 6, Township 38 north, Range 14, east of the third principal meridian, described
as follows: beginning at a point on the east line of the northwest 1/4 of said Section 6, said point
being the northeasterly corner of the parcel of land identified by permanent index number 20-06-100-
098 on the Official Cook County Tax Map; thence southerly along said east line of the northwest
1/4 and along the east line of the southwest 1/4 of said Section 6 to the south line of west 43rd
Street; thence easterly along said south line of west 43rd Street to the westerly line of the stockyards
industrial-commercial redevelopment project area pursuant to the ordinance passed by the City
Council of the City of Chicago on March 8, 1989, said point being 130 feet, more or less, west of the
west line of south Wolcott Avenue, thence southerly and southwesterly along the westerly line of
said stockyards industrial-commercial redevelopment project area, being also the track right-of-way
line, to an intersection with the center line of vacated west 44th Street, said point being 176.27 feet
west of the west line of south Wolcott Avenue; thence easterly along said center line of vacated west
44th Street, 26.27 feet to the westerly line of said stockyards industrial-commercial redevelopment
project area; thence southwesterly along the westerly line of said stockyards industrial-commercial
redevelopment project area, being also the track right-of-way line, to the east line of south Damen
Avenue; thence due west to the east line of the southwest 1/4 of said Section 6, thence northerly
along the east line of said southwest 1/4 to the southeasterly line of the parcel of land identified by
permanent index number 20-06-301-014 on the Official Cook County Tax Map, thence
southwesterly along the southeasterly line of the parcel of land identified by permanent index
number 20-06-301-014, being also the track right-of-way line, to the most southerly corner of said
parcel of land; thence northerly along the westerly line of said parcel of land identified by permanent
index number 20-06-301-014, being also the track right-of-way line, to the south line of the parcel of
land identified by permanent index number 20-06-301-010 on the Official Cook County Tax map;
thence westerly along said last described south line to the west line of said parcel of land identified
by permanent index number 20-06-301-010; thence northerly along said last described west line,
being also the track right-of-way line, to the northwest corner of said parcel of land identified by
permanent index number 20-06-301-010; thence westerly parallel with the south line of west 43rd
Street, 100 feet; thence northerly parallel with the west line of the parcel of land identified by
permanent index number 20-06-301-009 on the Official Cook County Tax Map, 250 feet to the south
line of west 43rd Street; thence westerly along said south line of west 43rd Street to a point 120 feet
west of the intersection of said south line of west 43rd Street with the easterly right-of-way line of
the Chicago River and Industrial Railroad Company mainline; thence due north to the north line of
west 43rd Street; thence easterly along said north line of west 43rd Street to the west line of the east
1/2 of the northwest 1/4 of said Section 6, thence northerly along said last described west line to the
northwesterly corner of the parcel of land identified by permanent index number 20-06-100-098 on
the Official Cook County Tax Map; thence easterly along the north line of said parcel of land
identified by permanent index number 20-06-100-098, 660 feet, more or less, to an angle point in said
line; thence northerly along the line of said parcel of land identified by permanent index number 20-
06- 100-098, 28 feet, more or less, to an angle point in said line; thence easterly along the north line of
said parcel of land identified by permanent index number 20-06-100-098, 655 feet, more or less, to
the point of beginning, all in the City of Chicago, Cook County, Ulinois.

A-l
{
i
i

PINANCTAL REPORT

DECEMBER 31, 1997

"
;
i
J

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

CONTENTS

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Balance sheet

Statement of revenues, expenditures and
changes in fund balance

Notes to financial statements

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

Schedule of cash activities
Schedule of expenditures by statutory code
tegen

Deemer

erate napa

eine

$83

eu te

tat

4

BANSLEY AND KIENER,L.L.P
Certiriep Pusiuic ACCOUNTANTS

125 SOUTH WACKER ORIVE
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60606-4496

AREA COOE 312 263-2700
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the 43rd and Damen
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois, as of December 31,
1997, and the related statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in
fund balance for the year then ended. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the City of Chicago’s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial state-
ments. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of the 43rd and Damen
Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois, as of December 31,
1997, and the results of its operations and changes in fund balance for the
year then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule of cash activities on
page 6 and the schedule of expenditures by statutory code on page 7, which
are also the responsibility of the City of Chicago’s management, are
presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part
of the financial statements of 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the
City of Chicago, Illinois. Such additional information has been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the financial statements
and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects when
considered in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole.

aod Karr LLP

Certified Public Accountants

April 13, 1998
4]
i
|

—_—

CITY OF CHICAGO, LLINOIS

BALANCE SHEET
DECEMBER 31, 1997

AS SETS

Cash and investments $159,043
Property taxes receivable 105,000
Accrued interest receivable 3,389

Total assets $267,432

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

Due to other City funds $ 3,227
Deferred revenue 105,000
Fund balance 159,205

Total liabilities and fund balance $267,432

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
City OF CHICAGO, JLLINOTS

i a a
}

43RD AND DAMEN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

STATEMENT OF REVENUES, EXPENDITURES AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
“| YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

Revenues
; Property tax $ 98,106
Interest 3,405
j
Total revenues 101,511
a Expenditures
i Capital projects 3,227
i
Revenues over expenditures 98,284
Fund balance, beginning of year 60,921
Fund balance, end of year $359,205

|

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
CITY OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

j = ee a : ———

43RD_AND_ REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

| Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Project

eaeae nent

The 43rd and Damen Tax Increment Redevelopment Project Area
(Project) was established in August 1994. The area has been
a established to finance improvements, leverage private investment
and create and retain jobs. Reimbursements, if any, are made to
} the developer as public improvements are completed and pass City
inspection.

Basis of Accounting

The Project is accounted for within the special revenue funds
of the City.

The financial statements are prepared on the modified accrual
basis of accounting and current financial resources measurement
focus with only current assets and liabilities included on the
balance sheet. Under the modified accrual basis of accounting,
. revenues are recorded when susceptible to accrual, i.e., both
| measurable and available to finance expenditures of the current
a period. Available means collectible within the current period or

soon enough thereafter to be used to pay liabilities of the current
j period. Expenditures are recorded when the liability is incurred.

Management’s Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
P assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
i liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the

reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

| Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act Compliance

, The Project’s expenditures include reimbursements for various
eligible costs as described in subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3
of the Illinois Tax Increment Redevelopment Allocation Act and the
Redevelopment Agreement relating specifically to the Project.
‘ Eligible costs include but are not limited to survey, property”
assembly, rehabilitation, public infrastructure, financing and
relocation costs.
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Continued)

Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)
Cash and Investments

. Cash belonging to the City is generally deposited with the
City Treasurer as required by the Municipal Code of Chicago. The
City Comptroller issues warrants for authorized City expenditures
\ which represent a claim for payment when presented to the City

{ Treasurer. Payment for all City warrants clearing is made by

checks drawn on the City’s various operating bank accounts.

The City Treasurer and City Comptroller share responsibility
for investing in authorized investments. Interest earned on pooled
investments is allocated to participating funds based upon their
average combined cash and investment balances. Investments are
stated at cost or amortized cost, which approximates market value.

“3 Property Taxes

a Property taxes are susceptible to accrual and recognized as a

receivable in the year levied. Revenue recognition is deferred
a unless the taxes are received within 60 days subsequent to
| year-end.

NOLLVWHYOANI AUWLNGWATddAS

is

a
Rcaeeeitentit

peed

SCHEDULE OF CASH ACTIVITIES
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

Cash flows from operating activities
Property taxes received
Interest received

Increase in cash and investments
Cash and investments, beginning of year

Cash and investments, end of year

Reconciliation of revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Revenues over expenditures
Adjustments to reconcile revenues over expenditures
to net cash provided by operating activities
Changes in assets - (increase)
Property tax receivable
Accrued interest receivable
Changes in liabilities - increase
Due to other City funds
Deferred revenue

S$ 98,106
16

98,122

60,927

$_ 459,043

S$ 98,284

(105,000)
(3,389)

3,227
105,000

$I 8 22
1 SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES BY STATUTORY CODE

Code Description

Costs of studies, surveys, development of plans and
' specifications, implementation and administration
i of the redevelopment plan including but not
; limited to staff and professional service costs
for architectural, engineering, legal, and marketing $3,227

\
|
i
j

eet ete

3
i
i
qT
H
}

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

(k) DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

The following Table K provides the required statement of tax receipts and assessment increments
for the Project Area as outlined in the Executive Order. The amount of incremental property tax
equals the incremental EAV from the prior year multiplied by the applicable property tax rates.
Actual receipts may vary due to delinquencies, sale of prior years’ taxes, and payment of
delinquencies. See the financial report for actual receipts. The table provides the following
information:

1) for a sales tax Project Area, the municipal sales tax increment and state sales tax
increment deposited in the fund during the prior calendar year;

2) for a utility tax Project Area, the municipal utility tax increment and the net state
utility tax increment amount deposited in the special allocation fund during the prior
calendar year;

3) for a property tax Project Area, (A) the total initial equalized assessed value of
property within the Project Area as of the date of designation of the area, and (B) the
total equalized assessed value of property within the Project Area as of the most
recent property tax year;

4) the dollar amount of property taxes on property within the Project Area attributable to
the difference between items (3)(A) and (3)(B) of this Section (k).

All terms used in Section (k) relating to increment amounts and assessed value are construed as
in Section 9 of the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation and Redevelopment Act or the Illinois
Industrial Jobs Recovery Law.
cant
ad

ee ee ee

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

TABLE K
DESCRIPTION OF TAX RECEIPTS AND ASSESSMENT INCREMENTS

MUNICIPAL STATE MUNICIPAL NET STATE
SALES TAX SALES TAX UTILITY TAX UTILITY TAX INITIAL
YEAR INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT INCREMENT EAV

ae ee ee ee eee

1997 N.A. (1) N.A. (1) N.A. (I) N.A. (1) $5,395,485

(1) N.A. - not applicable.

14

TOTAL
TOTAL INCREMENTAL
1996 PROPERTY

EAV TAXES 1996

$5,967,528 $96.497

43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

(}) CERTAIN CONTRACTS OF TIF CONSULTANTS

Section (1) provides information about contracts, if any, between the TIF consultant who was
paid by the City for assisting to establish the Project Area and any entity that has or is currently
receiving payments financed by tax increment revenues from the Project Area. The contents of
Section (1) are based on responses to a mail survey. This survey was sent to every consultant
who has prepared at least one redevelopment plan for the establishment of a redevelopment
project area within the City, as of December 31, 1997. The Executive Order specifically applies
to contracts that the City’s tax increment advisors or consultants, if any, have entered into with
any entity that has received or is receiving payments financed by tax revenues produced by the
same Project Area. No TIF Consultant was paid by the City for assisting to establish the
Project Area.

15
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

4 (m) COMPLIANCE STATEMENT PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANT

For the Project Area’s Special Tax Allocation Fund, this Report provides a certified audit report

reviewing compliance with the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act or the
Illinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate. The audit was performed by an
independent public accountant, certified and licensed by the State of Illinois, and in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards established by the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants. The Report contains a statement from the accountant indicating compliance
or non-compliance with the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act or the Illinois
Industrial Jobs Recovery Law, as appropriate.

J
i
i BERNARD 3 SULLIVAN IPA
i RICHARD J QUINN. CPA

FRANK S GADZALA. CPA
PAUL A MERKEL. CPA

7 THOMAS A TYLER CPA
\ JOHN W. SANEW JIT CPA
: THOMAS A. CERWIN, CPA
i STEPHEN Ft PANFIL, CPA

MICHAEL O HUELS. CPA

\ Bansley and Kiener, 1.L.P. ROBERT J MANNIGAN. CPA
i GERARD J PATER. CPA
i Certitied Public Accountants VINCENT M GUZALDO. C.PA
MANAGEMENT ADVISORY SERVICES

Established 1922 TIMOTHY MULCAHY

DAVID W RICHMOND
128 SOUTH WACKER DRIVE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60606-4496 312/263-2700 FAX: 312/263-6935

; INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

The Honorable Richard M. Daley, Mayor
Members of the City Council
City of Chicago, Illinois

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the balance sheet of 43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project of the City of
Chicago, Illinois as of December 31, 1997, and the related statement of
| revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for the year then ended,

and have issued our report thereon dated April 13, 1998.

In connection with our audit, nothing came to our attention that caused us
“4 to believe that the Project failed to comply with the regulatory provisions
| in Subsection (q) of Section 11-74.4-3 of the Illinois Tax Increment
Allocation Redevelopment Act and Subsection (o) of Section 11-74.6-10 of the
Illinois Industrial Jobs Recovery Law as they relate to the eligibility for
- costs incurred incidental to the implementation of the 43rd and Damen
= Redevelopment Project of the City of Chicago, Illinois.

7 This report is intended for the information of the City of Chicago’s
| management. However, this report is a matter of public record, and its
distribution is not limited.

tr Kienr, LP.

Certified Public Accountants
April 13, 1998

MEMBERS

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CPA'S :
ILLINOIS CPA SOCIETY INTERNATIONALLY - MOORE STEPHENS

MOORE STEPHENS NORTH AMERICA, INC. © <> «53 BANSLEY AND KIENER, LLP.
43rd and Damen Redevelopment Project Area
1997 Annual Report

ATTACHMENT
d REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

. hatly
aetna
